FAIRFIELD UNIVERSITYFAIRFIELD UNIVERSITY COURSE DESCRIPTIONS2017-2018
TABLE OF CONTENTSAccounting (AC)  3American Studies (AS)  5Anthropology (AY)  10Applied Ethics (AE)  12Arabic (AR)  15Art History (AH)  15Asian Studies (AN)  20Bioengineering (BEN)  20Biology (BI)  21Black Studies (BL)  28Business (BU)  29Business (Non-Credit) (BB)  29Chemistry (CH)  30Chinese (CI)  33Classical Studies (CL)  34Communication (CO)  35Computer Engineering (CR)  45Computer Science (CS)  46Counseling (CN)  47Economics (EC)  49Education (ED)  52Educational Technology (MD)  59Electrical Engineering (EE)  62Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE)  64Engineering (EG)  68English (EN)  69English for Engineers (EEG)  81English: Writing (ENW)  81Environmental Studies (EV)  86Family Therapy (FT)  86Film, Television, and Media Arts (FTM)  88Finance (FI)  92French (FR)  94General Studies (GS)  96German (GM)  96Graphic Design (GD)  98Greek (GR)  98Health Studies (HS)  98Hebrew (HE)  98History (HI)  99Honors (HR)  109Humanitarian Action (HA)  110Humanities (HU)  110Information Systems (IS)  110Interdisciplinary (ID)  113Interior Design (IN)  113International Studies (IL)  114Irish Studies (IRI)  115Italian (IT)  116Japanese (JA)  118Latin (LA)  118Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LAC)  119Management (MG)  119Management of Technology (MOT)  124Marketing (MK)  126Mathematics (MA)  129Mechanical Engineering (ME)  133Music (MU)  138Nursing (NS)  142Nursing: Anesthesia (NSAN)  150Nursing: Midwifery (NSMW)  151Operations Management (OM)  153Peace and Justice Studies (PJ)  153Philosophy (PH)  154Physics (PS)  159Politics (PO)  162Portuguese (PG)  167Psychology (PY)  167Public Administration (MPA)  175Quantitative Analysis (QA)  176Reading and Language Development (RLD)  176Religious Studies (RS)  179Russian (RU)  185Russian, Eastern European, and Central Asian Studies (RES)  185Sociology (SO)  186Software Engineering (SW)  188Spanish (SP)  192Special Education (SE)  195Studio Art (SA)  198TESOL and Bilingual Education (SL)  201Taxation (TX)  203Theatre (TA)  205
Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (WS)  207
Accounting (AC)AC 0011 Introduction to Financial Accounting3 CreditsThis course introduces students to ﬁnancial accounting. Studentslearn to read and comprehend published ﬁnancial statements andare introduced to the ﬁnancial reporting process. Topics includeﬁnancial statement analysis; accrual accounting; revenue and expenserecognition; and accounting for assets, liabilities, and equities.AC 0012 Introduction to Management Accounting3 CreditsPrerequisite: AC 0011.This course introduces students to managerial accounting and the roleof accounting information in managerial decision-making. Topics includea description of basic cost elements; the interrelationship betweenﬁxed costs, variable costs, and proﬁt; and methods of accumulating thecosts associated with producing products and providing services (e.g.,activity-based costing), so that students can make recommendationsabout performance evaluation, project evaluation and other managementdecisions.AC 0203 Intermediate Accounting I3 CreditsPrerequisite: AC 0011.This course provides an in-depth study of ﬁnancial accounting theoryand concepts, and the presentation of ﬁnancial statements in conformitywith Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The courseemphasizes balance sheet valuations and their relationship to incomemeasurement and determination.AC 0204 Intermediate Accounting II3 CreditsPrerequisite: AC 0203.This course continues the in-depth study of ﬁnancial accounting theoryand concepts, and the presentation of ﬁnancial statements in conformitywith Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) begun in AC 0203.In addition to balance sheet valuation and income measurementissues, the course includes special topics such as earnings per share,accounting for income taxes, leases, and cash flows.AC 0265 Accounting Information Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: AC 0012.This course analyzes the methods used to capture, process, andcommunicate accounting information in a modern business enterprise.Students learn to document business transaction cycles using data-flow diagrams and flowcharts. They analyze the accounting informationsystem, identify weaknesses, and recommend improvements to internalcontrol. Students process accounting information through a moderndatabase management application program such as a general ledgerpackage or an enterprise resource planning system.AC 0310 Advanced Accounting3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0204; junior or senior standing.This course focuses on accounting for various ﬁnancial investments,including ﬁnancial instruments, derivatives, and business combinations.Students also study the role of ﬁnancial instruments in hedging foreigncurrency exposures and the complications encountered in ﬁnancialreporting in a global environment.AC 0320 Cost Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0012, AC 0203, junior or senior standing.This course focuses on the proactive management of costs and theeffect of costs on managers' decision-making, planning, and control.Students learn to accumulate costs and assign them to products andservices using several different techniques such as activity-basedcosting. Other topics include proﬁt planning and resource allocationthrough the budgeting process; the evaluations of organizationalperformance in cost, proﬁt, and investment centers; and the importanceof cost in the strategic management of the organization.AC 0320L Cost Management Lab1 CreditCorequisite: AC 0320.In this lab, students practice applying cost accounting concepts.Activities include using computer applications (e.g., Excel) to solve andpresent solutions to cost management problems. Note: This optional labis not required, but highly recommended.AC 0330 Auditing3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0204; junior or senior standing.This course introduces the audit of ﬁnancial statements by independentCPAs. It bridges the gap between knowledge of accounting principles andthe professional practice of accounting and auditing in the working world.Students learn about the role of auditing in society and the professionalstandards for behavioral and technical competence. They also study thefactors entering into judgments about audit risk and the fair presentationof ﬁnancial statement assertions. The course presents programs andprocedures for deﬁning audit objectives, gathering evidence, makingdecisions, and exercising professional skepticism.AC 0343 Federal Income Taxation I3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0204; junior or senior standing.This course introduces students to income tax, adjusted gross income,deductions from adjusted gross income, itemized deductions, propertytransactions, ﬁling status and exemptions, passive activity losses, taxcredits, and tax computations. The course also includes tax complianceand preparation considerations for individuals.AC 0344 Individual Taxation: Socioeconomic Applications3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: AC 0343, junior or senior standing.This course builds on the knowledge students obtained from AC 0343Federal Income Taxation I. In addition to reviewing the fundamentalsof individual income tax theory and the associated various forms andschedules, the course will provide students with practical experience inpreparing and ﬁling individual tax returns and the procedures used toenforce the individual taxation system. Students will become familiarwith using the tax forms, calculating different tax credits and deductions,and conducting research to answer tax questions. The course will alsoaddress different social, economic, and ethical perspectives of thetaxation system. Students will apply professional tax software, andwill be required to obtain the necessary certiﬁcation and volunteer in aVolunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) site as tax preparers.AC 0345 Federal Income Taxation II3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0343; junior or senior standing.This course continues the study of taxation begun in AC 0343. The topicsinclude formation of the corporation, distributions, liquidations, andreorganizations. The course covers tax return preparation, tax planning,research, and compliance issues throughout, and also includes personalholding companies, Subchapter S corporations, and partnerships.
AC 0380 Not-for-Proﬁt Accounting3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0204; junior or senior standing.This course examines accounting theory and concepts,and the reportingprinciples promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board(FASB) as they relate to voluntary health and welfare organizations,healthcare organizations and universities and all types of not forproﬁt organizations. Learning will be enhanced by a service learningexperience.AC 0391 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisites: Junior standing.Students gain practical experience in accounting. Students must have aGPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment by permission only.AC 0392 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisites: Junior standing.Students gain practical experience in accounting. Students must have aGPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment by permission only.AC 0393 Internship1 CreditPrerequisites: Junior standing.Students gain practical experience in accounting. Students must have aGPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment by permission only.AC 0394 Internship1 CreditPrerequisites: Junior standing.Students gain practical experience in accounting. Students must have aGPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment by permission only.AC 0397 Independent Study3 or 6 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.This course provides students with the opportunity to study and researcha specialized topic under faculty guidance. Students must have a GPA or2.5 or higher. Open to Accounting majors only. Enrollment by permissiononly.AC 0398 Independent Study3 or 6 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.This course provides students with the opportunity to study and researcha specialized topic under faculty guidance. Students must have a GPA or2.5 or higher. Open to Accounting majors only. Enrollment by permissiononly.AC 0400 Introduction to Accounting3 CreditsThis course examines the basic concepts necessary to understand theinformation provided by ﬁnancial and managerial accounting systems.The focus is on interpretation of basic information, as students learnabout internal and external ﬁnancial reporting. Topics include: accrualaccounting; revenue and expense recognition; accounting for assets,liabilities, and equities; accumulation and assignment of costs toproducts and services; and budgeting.AC 0500 Accounting Information for Decision-Making3 CreditsPrerequisite: AC 0400.This course emphasizes the use of accounting information by managersfor decision-making. It is designed to provide managers with the skillsnecessary to interpret analytical information supplied by the ﬁnancial andmanagerial accounting systems. Financial accounting concepts basedon proﬁt, liquidity, solvency, and capital structure are used in the processof employing management accounting tools to decisions and evaluateorganization performance and changes in cost, proﬁt and investmentcenters.AC 0510 Issues in a Regulatory Reporting Environment3 CreditsThis course brings together technical accounting and reporting conceptsand theories with a focus on the ﬁnancial accounting information thatis required to be ﬁled with regulatory agencies, the most predominantbeing the Securities and Exchange Commission. This course aims toprovide an in-depth conceptual understanding of regulatory reportingrequirements coupled with an appreciation of how these regulationsaffect the quality of information in publicly available corporate reports.Students will enhance their ability to analyze and understand unique andcomplex future accounting issues and possible solutions. The course istaught seminar style with students leading the discussions of cases andresearch.AC 0520 International Accounting3 CreditsThe primary focus of this course is the study of International FinancialReporting Standards (IFRS). Particular emphasis will be placed ondeveloping an understanding of signiﬁcant differences between thecurrent United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)and IFRS standards. Students will also learn the pros and cons of U.S.GAAP and IFRS approaches for select technical accounting issues. Someother non-IFRS related topics include International Taxation, InternationalTransfer pricing and the impact of culture on the development ofaccounting standards and practices throughout the world.AC 0530 Accounting for Governments, Hospitals, andUniversities3 CreditsThis course examines the generally accepted accounting principlesapplicable to governmental entities (as issued by GASB) as well asaccounting principles applicable to not-for-proﬁt entities (as issued byFASB). The focus will be on the ﬁnancial statements and reports preparedby state and local governments and ﬁnancial reporting for the widearray of not-for-proﬁt entities with an emphasis on the contrast of theseentities with for-proﬁt accounting.AC 0550 Accounting Information Systems and Technology3 CreditsThis course analyzes the methods used to capture, process, andcommunicate accounting information in a modern business enterprise.Students learn to document business transaction cycles, identifyweaknesses, and recommend internal control improvements. They maydesign and build a module of an accounting information system usingappropriate database technology.AC 0555 Issues in Internal Audit3 CreditsThis course covers internal audit from a broad perspective. Coursetopics cover three main areas, internal audit: (1) basics, (2) risks, and (3)metrics. During the course, students will develop critical thinking skills(particularly employing professional skepticism) and learn to effectivelycommunicate their professional opinions.AC 0560 Audit Issues in a Global Environment3 CreditsThis course will expose students to the global profession of auditing,with a primary focus on public company auditors. Topics will vary anygiven semester, but may include the following: the different internationalorganizations that set auditing standards and enforce auditing standards;the impact of culture on auditing standards and practices throughoutthe world; the impact of International Financial Reporting Standards oninternational and U.S. auditing rules; the evaluation of audit evidence;auditor independence; materiality; internal controls; computer assistedaudit tools and techniques; fraud detection and forensic accounting. Thecourse is taught seminar style, with students leading the discussionsof cases and current articles. Assignments are designed to developstudents' written and oral communication skills, analytical skills, andcritical thinking skills.
AC 0565 Forensic Accounting3 CreditsThis course provides students with a foundation in investigativeaccounting. Topics covered include identifying, investigating anddocumenting fraud and providing litigation support for forensicengagements. With an emphasis on case analyses and/or independentresearch, students taking the course will have the opportunity toimprove their critical thinking and written and oral communicationskills, particularly as they relate to the legal settings associated withinvestigative accounting. Only open to students enrolled in the MSAccounting, MBA Accounting, MBA Taxation, or Accounting GraduateCertiﬁcate program.AC 0570 Issues in Accounting Ethics3 CreditsThis course investigates ethical problems in contemporary accountingpractice. The goal is to increase students' ethical perception so they arebetter able to identify, consider, and ultimately act on the ethical issuesthey may face in their professional accounting career, regardless ofspecialty area (e.g., audit, tax, and corporate accounting). The course istaught seminar style, with students leading the discussions of cases andcurrent articles. Assignments are designed to develop students' writtenand oral communication skills, analytical skills, and critical thinking skills.AC 0580 Financial Statement Analysis3 CreditsThe course is designed to increase and extend the knowledge of thestudent in ﬁnancial statement information and topics introducedin undergraduate courses in intermediate and advanced ﬁnancialaccounting through lecture, problem solving and case analysis. Acritical examination of both objective and subjective aspects of ﬁnancialreporting will be undertaken with both quantitative as well as qualitativeassessments of ﬁnancial information emphasized.AC 0585 Seminar: Special Topics in Accounting3 CreditsThis course presents recent practioner and academic literature in variousareas of accounting, including guest speakers where appropriate. Topicschange semester to semester, depending upon faculty and studentinterests.AC 0590 Research on Contemporary Issues in Accounting3 CreditsThis course is a designated research course. In it students willinvestigate, analyze, develop, and present recommendations for emergingissues, recent pronouncements of accounting rule-making bodies and/orunresolved controversies relating to contemporary ﬁnancial reporting. Indoing so, students will consider institutional, historical, and internationalperspectives. In their research, students are expected to use authoritativeresources (e.g., FASB and/or IASB pronouncements). The course istaught seminar style, with students leading the discussions of cases andcurrent articles. Assignments are designed to develop students' writtenand oral communication skills, analytical skills, and critical thinking skills.AC 0591 Practicum in Accounting3 CreditsThis course builds on the in-class lessons covered during the student'sgraduate studies by providing the student with the opportunity to applyhis/her academic knowledge to a professional accounting context.As such, it is an experiential learning activity. Successful completionof the practicum will entitle students to three credits that count as agraduate-level accounting elective. Open only to students enrolled in theMS Accounting, MBA Accounting, or Accounting Graduate Certiﬁcateprogram. Enrollment by permission of the department chair or his/herdesignee. This course may not be repeated for credit.AC 0598 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course provides students with an opportunity to develop researchskills while exploring a speciﬁc contemporary accounting issue witha full-time faculty member specializing in the area of the discipline.Students are expected to complete a signiﬁcant research paper as theprimary requirement of this course. Enrollment by permission fromDepartment Chair or his or her designee only.American Studies (AS)AS 0200 Roots of American Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: One American Studies Gateway course.This course provides an introduction to the study of American culture.In familiarizing students with the variety of interdisciplinary waysto approach American Studies, students will examine the diverseexperiences, intellectual traditions, and cultural touchstones that makeAmerican life a rich and fascinating object of study. Using a variety ofsources, students will survey the following themes: race, ethnicity andimmigration; expression and imagination; values and ethics; gender;institutional power and politics; and America as a global identity.AS 0201 The American Intellectual Tradition3 CreditsA seminar on major ideas and themes that have helped shape Americanlife, this course makes a conscious effort to demonstrate the interactionbetween intellectual, social, and cultural dynamics in the formation ofAmerica.AS 0350 Internship1-3 CreditsThe internship program allows students to gain on-site accessexperience in a wide variety of ﬁelds, including, but not limited to,law, marketing, magazine publishing. These positions are availableupon recommendation of the program intern supervisor, under whoseguidance the students assume the jobs, which require 10-15 hours aweek. Students may take one internship for credit toward the AmericanStudies major. Students may take a second internship for elective credit.Enrollment by permission of the program intern supervisor only.AS 0361 American Civil War: Myth and Reality3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: HistoryThis course exposes students to an interdisciplinary method of learning.While using standard historical texts to establish the facts regardingthe American Civil War, this course explores the sometimes confusingand contradictory versions of the Civil War as depicted in literature,photography, feature ﬁlms, documentary ﬁlms, music, painting, and othermodes of expression.AS 0383 America in the 1930s: A Decade of Change3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: HistoryThe Great Depression represents the catalytic agent in America'sextraordinary transformation in the 1930s, a decade during which thechanges in the economic and political sectors provided the matterfor American cultural life. This course acquaints students with thecomplexities of this pivotal period in American life through feature ﬁlmsand documentaries, popular and serious ﬁction, the American theatreof the time, popular music, public and private art, and mass circulationand little magazines, while introducing them to an interdisciplinarymethodology.
AS 0389 Literature and Religion: The American Experience3 CreditsThis course surveys the relationship of literature to religion in the historyof American letters. Beginning with the moral didacticism of early Puritanliterature, American writers have manifested a persistent concern withreligio-ethical matters as well as with the impact of religious institutionsin shaping our social and cultural environment. Using literary texts bymajor American writers, the course evaluates the critical perspective andrelevance of the imaginative writer's treatment of religious questions.AS 0399 Independent Research Project3 CreditsDuring their senior year, each American studies major writes a researchpaper under the supervision of several participating faculty members.Students integrate different intellectual disciplines in the design andexecution of their projects.AS 0400 Critical Issues in American Studies3 CreditsThis graduate seminar provides an introduction to the ﬁeld of AmericanStudies. Using key books and essays in American Studies, students willfamiliarize themselves with the diverse cultural and intellectual traditionsthat have created the American experience. Using interdisciplinaryapproaches, students will survey the following themes in Americansociety and culture: race, ethnicity and immigration; expression andimagination; values and ethics; gender; institutional power and politics;and America and the world.AS 0404 American Studies Graduate Project3 CreditsThe culminating component of the MA program is the Graduate Project.With the guidance of a faculty mentor, the student undertakes a majorresearch project focused on an approved American Studies topic. Thefaculty mentor and student will choose a second faculty reader fromanother discipline within the American Studies Program. At the outset,the student will register for AS 404 with the faculty mentor and willprovide a proposal and preliminary bibliography. The project carriesthree credits and usually is completed over the course of one semester.Speciﬁc guidelines are distributed by the Graduate Program Director.AS 0410 Introduction to Women's and Gender Studies3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the theories and concepts of theinterrelated ﬁelds of Women's Studies and Gender Studies, MasculinityStudies, and Sexuality/Queer Studies. We will discuss the development ofthese ﬁelds, their application in various disciplines, and their importancein American Studies. The course uses theoretical readings, novels, andpopular ﬁlms to explore aspects of gender studies in everyday life.AS 0415 Civil Liberties I3 CreditsThis course examines the freedoms afforded by the Constitution and theBill of Rights and the role of the federal courts, especially the SupremeCourt, in protecting individual rights. It focuses on such areas of lawas freedom of speech and press, freedom of religion, and the right toprivacy. Particular attention is paid to the equal protection and dueprocess clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment and the relationship tosuch issues as school desegregation, voting rights, afﬁrmative action,and criminal procedure.AS 0416 Civil Liberties II: Criminal Justice3 CreditsThis course examines the investigatory and adjudicatory processes ofthe American criminal justice system. The course begins with a briefintroduction to criminal law, its sources, and development. It then movesto an analysis of the evolutionary development of due process focusingon the right to counsel, search, and seizure, the role of the police ininterrogations, confessions, and investigations. The focus then shifts toan examination of the criminal trial and the respective roles of prosecutor,defense attorney, judge, and jury. Attention is also given to the issuesof bail and "plea-bargaining." The course concludes with an analysis ofthe goals of punishment, the Eighth Amendment, and the function of thecorrectional system.AS 0450 Supreme Court in the 1960s3 CreditsThis course analyzes the dynamics of the Earl Warren Supreme Courtand its impact on American society through decisions on such issuesas reapportionment, right to privacy, school prayer, libel, and civil rights.The course examines major criminal rights decisions of the Court suchas search and seizure, self-incrimination, and the right to counsel, andconsiders the impact of these decisions on subsequent cases andcurrent issues related to the cases.AS 0453 American Popular Entertainments and Social History3 CreditsPopular entertainments have great power. "They tell us what is on theminds of ordinary people at any given moment - their concerns, biasesand anxieties - and in turn reﬁne them and restate them in a palatable,easily understood way," wrote Professor Emeritus Brooks McNamara ofNew York University of this new ﬁeld of scholarly inquiry that plumbsAmerica's popular entertainments as a means of understanding itssocial history. This course will examine critical live entertainment formsthat flourished in the years between the conclusion of the Civil War andthe end of the 1920s largely due to increased leisure time, improvedtransportation, and rapidly developing cities. Popular entertainment --amusements aimed at a broad, relatively unsophisticated audience --were frequently American reinventions of European imports, such asthe circus, while others, like the Minstrel Show, were uniquely Americancreations. We will begin the course with an intensive look at the MinstrelShow as a key to the solidiﬁcation and perpetuation of American raciststereotypes and then consider Circus, the Wild West Show, Vaudeville,Burlesque, Medicine Show, Chautauqua, and popular dramas such asToby, Tab, and Tom shows, as manifestations of American society of thelate 19th and early 20th centuries.AS 0461 The American Civil War3 CreditsThis course employs the interdisciplinary method of learning inexamining the American Civil War. While using standard historical textsto establish the facts regarding the War, the course focuses on thesometimes confusing and contradictory versions of the War depictedin literature, photography, feature ﬁlms, documentary ﬁlms, and othermodes of expression.AS 0479 Islam in America3 CreditsThe course treats the history of Muslims in America from the early19th century to the present. Topics include: the basic tenets of Islam;changing and diverse religious traditions and ideas; Islam amongAfrican-Americans; the role of women; concerns about prejudice andunfair treatment; and political views and practice before and after theSeptember 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
AS 0483 America in the 1930s: A Decade of Change3 CreditsThe Great Depression represents the catalytic agent in America'sextraordinary transformation in the 1930s, a decade during which thechanges in the economic and political sectors provided the matterfor American cultural life. This course acquaints students with thecomplexities of this pivotal period in American life through feature ﬁlmsand documentaries, popular and serious ﬁction, the American theatreof the time, popular music, public and private art, and mass circulationand little magazines, while introducing them to an interdisciplinarymethodology.AS 0484 Battle Over Family Values in American Politics3 CreditsThe course examines family as an evolving American political andcultural ideal and investigates changes and continuities in Americanfamily politics through the twentieth century. It explores the causes,implications, and contexts for the rise of numerous political debates thathave centered on the American family such as welfare and anti-povertypolicies, LGBT rights, contraception and abortion, and immigration. Italso familiarizes students with multiple forms of social scientiﬁc writing,methods of research design and original data gathering.AS 0486 Health and Healing in America, 1650 to 20003 CreditsThis seminar explores the idea of America through the lens of majorthemes in the history of health and medicine from the colonial era tocontemporary America. Students will consider the changing Americanidentity from the colonial era to the present as they engage with culturalartifacts evocative of a population grappling with the health and diseasesin a land new to Europeans, medicine and health in the age of science andindustrialization, and medicine and health in an age of technology.AS 0488 Frontier in American Culture3 CreditsThe frontier -- traditionally understood as the place where "humanity"comes into contact with its apparent absence in the shape of alien beingsand landscapes -- has been the subject of some of the most lastingpowerful stories in the formation of U.S. national identity. The purpose ofthis course is to investigate the ideological underpinnings of this mythand its consequences, as well as to explore alternative conceptulizationsof the frontier, particularly as a "rhizomatic" space where cultures meetand grapple with one another. Materials for the course are drawn fromliterature, ﬁlm, painting, photography, and popular culture.AS 0499 Independent Study3 CreditsStudents arrange for independent study with a professor willing to serveas a tutor and under whose direction they will write a research paperof approximately ﬁfty pages. This project should be completed in onesemester. All independent study must have the approval of the programdirector. Students may take only one independent study toward the MAdegree.ASAH 0441 Fine Art vs. Anti-Art: 1917 to 19673 CreditsDr. Wayne Craven writes in American Art: History and Culture, "As thenew century opened America was a nation in transition, and ripe formany kinds of revolutions - in politics, social systems, and certainly inliterature and painting. [These] social shifting values and forces wereoccurring within American society at large." Focusing on the 50 yearsfrom WWI to Vietnam, this class examines the artistic debates andideological struggles manifested by American art. During this time, thereis a shifting barometric needle of stylistic expression. On one side, wesee an entrenched, traditionalist school that retains the noble beaux artscriteria for realism and classical content. Artists to be studied in thisschool are: Henri, Sloan, Hopper, Marsh, Cadmus, Benton, Curry, Wood,Sheeler, Demuth and Wyeth. On the other side of the aesthetic spectrum,we encounter rebels leading the avant-garde. Sparked by the new "isms"of European modernism, artists to be discussed include: Duchamp,Stella, Dove, O'Keeffe, Gorky, Pollock, Rothko, Frankenthaler, De Kooning,Motherwell. The culmination and convergence of these parallel tracksarrive with the neo-realist but equally avant-gardist Pop art movementof the 1960s. Warhol, Rosenquist, Johns, and Wessleman use hard-edgerealism to convey anti-establishment parodies and camp spin-offs of highculture. The period between 1917-1967 becomes, then, the pivotal shiftwhen traditionalism is converted into a new cultural paradigm endingmodernism as a distinct period.ASAH 0444 American Visual Art History3 CreditsThis class focuses on a selection of American Masters who came todeﬁne the American experience as visual innovators reflecting andtransforming their times. Among the artists explored are: Thomas Cole,Winslow Homer, John Sloan, Frank Lloyd Wright, Georgia O'Keefe, EdwardHopper, Jacob Lawrence, Lee Krasner, Jackson Pollock, Andy Warhol,and Judy Chicago. Each artistic biography is presented as a ﬁlteredlens through which America's social, political, literary and economicthemes are manifested in painterly expressions. Within this culturalframework, we examine the creative spirit of each age in the Americanexperience. The course combines classroom illustrated slide lectures,discussions, and ﬁeld trips to study on-site major collections of Americanart at museums including: The Yale University Art Gallery, WadsworthAtheneum, New Britain Museum of American Art, Metropolitan Museumof Art, and Whitney Museum of American Art.ASEN 0447 Poetry in America3 CreditsA survey of major developments in American poetry from the mid-19thcentury to the late years of the 20th century, this course emphasizes thepoems of Walt Whitman, Emily Dickinson, Robert Frost, T. S. Eliot, andLangston Hughes. The course also offers an introduction to the works ofEzra Pound, E. E. Cummings, Amy Lowell, Marianne Moore, and WilliamCarlos Williams, as well as to Beat poetry (Ginsberg, Ferlinghetti), andto the confessional movement that dominated the second half of the20th century (Robert Lowell, Anne Sexton, Sylvia Plath). The focus is onthe shifting patterns of poetic style and on the evolution of Americansensibility and experience as expressed in the poems under discussion.ASEN 0486 Native American Literature3 CreditsThis course explores a range of genres -- for example autobiography,novels, short stories, ﬁlm, and poems -- by American Indian writers andﬁlmmakers from the 18th-21st centuries. We will rigorously examine howNative peoples have shaped and continue to shape their identities in andagainst U.S. colonialism. Writers and ﬁlmmakers may include, but are notlimited to, Apess, Eastman, Za, Silko, Momaday, Welch, Eyre, Redroad.
ASEN 0488 Award-Winning American Novels3 CreditsIn this course students will read a variety of award-winning contemporaryAmerican novels. The novels will be selected from among the mostprestigious prizes given in American letters each year, including TheNational Book Award, National Book Critics Circle Award, The PulitzerPrize, and the Pen/Faulkner Award. These awards are given annually tothe best novels published each year. The course will investigate whatmakes each novel "American" thematically, culturally, and stylistically.Among the ten novels to be studied will be The Known World, MartinDressler, Motherless Brooklyn, The Great Fire, and Confessions of NatTurner.ASEN 0490 The Contemporary American Memoir3 CreditsThis course is a study of some of the most important contemporarymemoirs written by Americans in the last 30 years. With the readings,students will analyze what makes a memoir a memoir and in particular,what is quintessentially American about each one.ASHI 0415 Inventing Themselves: African-American Women in U.S.History3 CreditsAt the intersection of race, gender, and class, African-American womenoften challenged the codiﬁcation of blackness and femaleness as well asa limited conception of class consciousness. From the diaspora to thepresent, they created forms of resistance, devised survival strategies, andtransmitted cultural knowledge while defying racial/gender stereotypes.The multiple roles assumed by African-American women during theirstruggle from slaves to citizens in the United States represent a complexstudy of the relational nature of difference and identity. This coursefocuses on African-American women as subjects and agents of pivotalimportance within the family, community, and labor force.ASHI 0437 American Prophetic Tradition3 CreditsThis intensive reading and writing seminar examines in some depthindividuals and social movements in U.S. history that acted outof religious and philosophical traditions. Topics covered includebiographies, auto-biographies, writings, and diaries of such ﬁguresas Mary Dyer, Roger Williams, John Dickinson, John Ross, EmmaWillard, Lydia Marie Child, W.E.B. Dubois, Randolph Bourne, WalterRauschenbusch, Dorothy Day, Abraham Heschel, and Robert Coles. Thecourse looks at the prophetic roots of religious liberty, women's suffrage,abolitionism, the labor movement, populism, Civil Rights, and the '60s.Five three-page critical book reviews and one longer project are required.ASHI 0439 The Tumultuous 20th Century: Key Issues in United StatesPolitical and Social History3 CreditsThe United States in the 20th Century has seen massive strikes, socialupheaval, political challenge, and unparalleled prosperity and growth.This intensive reading, writing, and discussion seminar examines keyissues and ﬁgures in the political and social changes of the 20th century -from Progressivism to Bill Clinton, from the ﬁrst Red Scare and the rise ofthe American Civil Liberties Union to current struggles over political andcivil rights in the context of the War on Terror.ASHI 0442 Immigration, Ethnicity, and Race in United StatesHistory3 CreditsThis intensive reading, writing, and discussion seminar examines thehistory of U.S. immigration in the 19th and 20th centuries. Arrangedthematically within a chronological framework, the seminar situatesthe United States within the context of global migration patterns andeconomic development. The ﬁrst part of the course investigates patternsof migration and community settlement, family strategies of survivaland adaptation, and immigrant cultures. The second part analyzesthe reception of successive immigrant groups. Most importantly, thecourse explores how race, ethnicity, assimilation, acculturation, andAmericanization were deﬁned by American government and society.Throughout, the course conducts a critical evaluation of how historiansand other scholars have studied immigration and immigrant communitiesand examines today's perceptions of the American immigrant experience.Varied readings include monographs, oral histories, reform investigations,and a novel.ASHI 0449 Historical Cultural Geography3 CreditsThis seminar will teach students various aspects of researching andconstructing a historical geographical study, using one community's landrecords, tax records, genealogical records, and maritime records. Thecourse will include lab work, training in computer techniques, includinggeographic information science (GIS) technology, which will providestudents with a usable skill that is applicable to many professionalcareers. The case study will change each time the course is offered. Mostrecently, it was "Little Liberia," an early Free Black community in the SouthEnd of Bridgeport in the 1820s and 1830s and the site of the FreemanHouses, built in 1848 and listed in the National Historic Register.ASHI 0451 Crises and Turning Points in United States Foreign Relations,1776 to 20093 CreditsThis seminar explores crises and turning points in U.S. Foreign Relationsfrom the American Revolution to 9/11, the Iraq War, Afghanistan andup to the present, including the Alliance with France, the War of 1812,Manifest Destiny, the Mexican War, Indian Removal, the Spanish-American-Cuban-Filipino War, World War I, Pearl Harbor, the Cuban MissileCrisis, the Vietnam War, the Gulf War, Bosnia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, andthe resurgence of China and Russia.
ASIT 0481 Visions of Italy and America in Film3 CreditsAdaptations and critiques of genres and themes indicate cinematichealth. Italian cinema, which has given rise to movements such asneorealism, commedia all'italiana, and the spaghetti western, hasprovided the original material for adaptations by directors from othercountries, notably the United States. The prevalence of Americanadaptations is a measure of the artistic contribution of the Italiannational cinema. In this course we examine the phenomenon ofadaptation and interpretation of Italian ﬁlms from the postwar perioduntil today. After a condensed review of more than 60 years of Italiancinematic history, we examine several American interpretations of Italianﬁlm classics. Garnett's The Postman Always Rings Twice (1946), basedupon James Cain's novel, revisits Visconti's Ossessione (1943). NeilSimon's Sweet Charity (1966) and later Woody Allen's Purple Rose ofCairo (1985) re-tell Fellini's tragic tale of Le notti di Cabiria (1957). Moresubtle parallels are found in Neil LaBute's Nurse Betty (2000) and Fellini'sLo sciecco bianco (1956). Brian DePalma's Blow Out (1981), starring JohnTravolta, maintains the premise of Antonioni's Blow-Up (1966). Madonnaand Guy Ritchie's 2002 remake of Swept Away (1974), as well as GarryMarshall's adaptation Overboard (1987), reveal the impact of Wertmuller'soriginal. These American reflections on Italian ﬁlms, themselves darkmirrors reflecting on the themes and assumptions of American ﬁlmhegemony, offer another means to appreciate the powerful insights ofself-reflection in the Italian postwar period.ASIT 0493 Italian-American Experience3 CreditsStudents analyze the concept of nationality and national identity inliterature, ﬁlm, and critical essays by and about Italian-Americansand discuss the concept of race and racial origins together with thephenomenon of emigration. The course addresses role and represen-tation differences for men and women in this subgroup of Americansociety, with particular consideration given to the ethnic roots of thesedifferences. It also examines the ways in which poetry, prose, andﬁlm reveal Italian ethnicity in 19th- and 20th-century America, withspecial emphasis on the sense of otherness that this immigrant groupexperienced.ASMU 0401 History of Jazz3 CreditsThis course traces the development of American jazz from its originsin black musical traditions. Topics include the roots of jazz in ragtime,blues, work songs, and march music. Also addresses the developmentof different jazz styles, such as Dixieland in the '20s, swing in the '30s,bop in the '40s, and present-day evolutions. The course emphasizesconnecting the historical period with the music of jazz - America's originalart music.ASMU 0402 History of Rock3 CreditsThis course surveys the musical and social trends that resulted in theemergence of rock and roll as an important musical and cultural force inAmerica. The course traces the roots of rock, blues, and country stylesand, showing how they merged with popular music, studies periods fromthe 1950s to the present, along with Elvis Presley, Chuck Berry, LittleRichard, the Beatles, the British invasion, folk music, Bob Dylan, jazz andart rock, Jimi Hendrix, the west coast movement, and the music industry.The social, political, and cultural aspects of rock as they have affectedAmerican life provide an American studies emphasis.ASMU 0403 Critical Issues in American Popular Music3 CreditsThis course provides an in-depth look at the important musical, social,and racial issues in American popular music spanning from the mediaexploitation of the blues in the 1920's through current issues in hip hop.Subject areas will include blues and its origins, jazz and modernism,the obstacles of race in music, the death of rhythm and blues, rock'sevolution in the 50's, rap and hip hop culture, and issues in bothpostmodernism and perverse modernism as seen by many music and artcritics.ASPO 0461 The American Presidency3 CreditsThis course examines the role of the President in the political systemand considers the origins, qualiﬁcations, and limitations of the ofﬁcefrom which the President functions as chief executive, legislative leader,and link with the courts. The course evaluates presidential achievementof domestic and foreign policy goals by examining presidential powersand the President's roles as party leader and politician. It also reviewsquestions of reform.ASRS 0442 Jews and Judaism in America3 CreditsWhat has it meant in the past and what does it mean today to be a Jewin America? Viewing Judaism and Jewishness as inseparable from oneanother, Jews remain a distinct, though by no means homogeneous,religious and ethnic group in American society. This course exploresthe religious, cultural, social, economic, and political diversity thatexists among American Jews, as well as distinctive beliefs, concerns,and experiences that continue to unite them. The course pays specialattention to issues related to immigration, acculturation, gender, andAfrican-American/Jewish relations.ASSO 0412 Contemporary American Society3 CreditsThis course analyzes the dominant ideology and values that have shapedAmerican culture - namely, the Protestant ethic - and how and whythese values are changing. The course also analyzes major institutionaltrends that have transformed and continue to transform America and themodern world - bureaucratization, industrialization, urbanization, the riseof the business corporation, science, and technology - and the effectsof these institutions in producing new personality types, mass society,and rapid social change. The course provides a macro-sociologicalframework.ASSO 0465 Urban Sociology: New York3 CreditsThis course examines the evolution of the city in the American experienceby focusing on New York City. Both New York's unique history andcontemporary social structure are examined. Readings and classroomdiscussion are combined with three ﬁeld trips to New York on threesuccessive Saturdays. Each ﬁeld trip explores an area of New York.
ASSO 0469 Women: Work and Sport3 CreditsGender stratiﬁcation exists in most areas of everyday life throughoutAmerican society. This course concentrates on the varying experiences(based on class, race, and ethnic differences) of women in the workplaceand on the playing ﬁeld. Sex segregation and sex integration as complexhistorical and contemporary processes constitute the main focus of theﬁrst part of the course. Within this context, economic and social changeswill be viewed as historically having an enormous impact on the rolesof women in the work force and how they have managed these roles. Inturn, their experiences will be analyzed as catalysts of societal change.The last part of the course focuses on women as athletes. Their variedexperiences in this world parallel to a large extent their experienceswithin the workplace. The underlying theme is that the sports arenamirrors the larger society particularly in terms of gender roles. What isseen as "acceptable and non-acceptable" behavior for women in theeveryday world is reflected in their roles as athletes. The impact of genderon socializing children into sport and sport itself as a socializing agencyis the foundation for critically assessing the outcomes of Title IX and theexistence of homophobia in sport.ASTA 0420 American Drama and Society3 CreditsThis course explores the social, political, and economic forces that haveshaped the United States via the themes and perspectives expressed inits drama. The course covers the late 18th century through the present,paying particular attention to dramas and more populist forms ofentertainment that speciﬁcally address the notion and development ofa distinctly American voice and ideology. Students begin with RoyallTyler's 1787 comedy, The Contrast, which offers the ﬁrst wholly Americancharacter - Jonathan the "true-blue" Yankee - and end with Tony Kushner'smonumental two-part drama, Angels in America (1991), which juxtaposesAmerican Judaism and Mormonism within the context of politics, homo-and heterosexual relationships, and the AIDS epidemic. In between,students consider the work of seminal American dramatists (O'Neill,Miller, Williams, and others) as well as trends in popular theatre forms(minstrelsy, wild west shows, vaudeville, burlesque, musical comedy) increating the totality of the American cultural experience.ASTA 0421 Ethnic American Performance and Society3 CreditsThe course will explore the social, political, economic, and cultural forcesthat have shaped the United States via the themes, perspectives, andproduction choices expressed in its ethnic drama and performance. Wewill consider plays and performance pieces (such as pow-wows, ChineseNew Year celebrations, and the like) created by African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Latino/a Americans, and Native Americans, all of whom havebeen marginalized voices existing outside of mainstream theatre, anarena historically dominated by white males. We shall pay particularattention to issues of race, gender, and class apparent in both the playtexts as well as in the ideological perspectives of the playwrights. Wealso will note the choice of subjects, themes, and environments andconsider how these are placed within the larger context of Americanculture and society.Anthropology (AY)AY 0010 Introduction to Four-Field Anthropology3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityWho are we, where do we come? Why is life unfair, and why dointolerance, poverty and inequality persist? Anthropologists hold nomonopoly on truth or explanation, but they do employ a wide range ofmethods to explore what it means to be human. In this introductoryanthropology course we survey the four sub-ﬁelds that comprisethis multi-disciplinary science: biological anthropology, archaeology,sociocultural anthropology, and linguistics. Over the course of thesemester, we will explore what anthropology and its sub-ﬁelds contributeto our understanding of ourselves, our histories, and our world.AY 0052 Culture and Political Economy3 CreditsThis course examines the ways in which global political economicdynamics impact local cultures. Students will begin with classic texts insocial theory, examine how this theory informs contemporary debates,and look to small-scale societies in the Global South for an intimate,ethnographic perspective of our global era.AY 0110 Biological Anthropology3 CreditsThe study of natural selection, primate evolution, and living primatesocieties provides a baseline from which to study the evolution of thehuman species. The course also traces human cultural and socialdevelopment from the foraging bands of the ﬁrst humans to thecivilizations that appeared at the dawn of written history. Studentsalso examine physical variation among living populations. This coursemeets the core natural science requirement and not the social sciencerequirement.AY 0111 Cultural Anthropology3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityWhy is there such variety in the way people live, dress, speak, eat, loveand ﬁght? This course explores the shared patterns of thought, behavior,and feelings - that is, the cultures - of a number of peoples and presentsexplanations for the forms they take and the differences between them.The course helps students develop a new perspective on the values andinstitutions of Western culture.AY 0115 Biomedical Anthropology3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceThis seminar-style class explores biological anthropology to examinethe dynamic relationship between health, biology, and culture. Acrosscultures, geography, and time, we uncover the underlying processesthat inhibit or enhance human health. From the biology of stress to theeradication of tuberculosis and Ebola, we'll see biological anthropology'sinvaluable contributions to modern medicine, public health, andglobal health management. Students will learn theoretical and appliedapproaches to understand the evolution and ecology of disease; humandevelopment and metabolism; and sexuality and gender; as well as healthpolicy and medical practice (in terms of cultural universals, differences,and disparities). This course meets the core natural science requirementand not the social science requirement.
AY 0130 Cultures of Africa3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSSS Black Studies: Socialand Behavioral Sciences, WDIV World DiversityThis course explores the wealth of cultural traditions and histories fromAfrica. It begins with an abridged review of African history from the dawnof humankind to 21st century challenges and achievements. Then thefocus shifts to regional case studies through African literature, ﬁlm,and music. For the ﬁnal segment of the class, students conduct andpresent original research on the cultural dynamics of critical issuesfacing contemporary Africans. Students learn and practice researchmethods in African Studies and Anthropology.AY 0135 Refugees and Culture in the Modern World3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course provides students with an overview of refugee movementswith a focus on cultural encounters across the world. Students will focuson the social integration and identity adjustments of refugees in theirhost communities and/or country. The course will also allow students tolearn about cultural adjustments of both refugees and host communitieswhether it is in the United States, Europe, Middle East, or Africa. Studentswill explore how features of the speciﬁc societies serve to inhibit oraugment cultural adjustments and meet the new needs and realities ofpopulations in movement.AY 0140 Anthropology of Latin America and the Caribbean3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThis course examines cultural diversity in Latin America and theCaribbean. Adopting a cross-cultural, anthropological perspectivethe course examines Latin American and Caribbean societies beforeEuropean contact, as well as the processes of conquest and colonialism.Special consideration is give to gender and gender relations, race andethnicities, religion and religiosity, health and folk medicine, food andfood cultures, globalization, tourism and trade, poverty and inequality,labor, popular culture, music, violence and security, social movements,people and the environment, and migration.AY 0145 Anthropology of Food3 CreditsThe way humans make and consume food shapes our lives andtransforms our world. From our hunter-gatherer past to your family'smost recent holiday dinner, in this course we explore the relationshipbetween food, society, and our environment. Through cross-cultural,historical, and ecological studies, the anthropology of food revealsfascinating patterns of cooperation, inequality, and human diversity. Theclass is divided into three parts: making food (food production), eatingfood (food consumption), and being food (relationship between food andidentity). Our semester includes three feast days and an off-campus ﬁeldtrip.AY 0152 Islamic Societies and Cultures3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThis is an anthropological inquiry into a number of Muslim societies. Thiscourse investigates the cultural, ethnic, and linguistic diversity withinMuslim societies, while seeking to understand what they have in commonwith each other and with their non-Muslim neighbors.AY 0163 Culture and Inequality3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice StudiesThis course focuses on the concepts of "culture" and "inequality," twoterms employed to deal with "difference" in a range of intriguinglydifferent and morally charged ways. The course explores recent work inanthropology, economics, and sociology using culture and/or inequalityas a lens through which to view various issues in contemporary socialtheory. In the process, students work to discover what kind of lens cultureand/or inequality provides, how our implicit understandings of theseideas shape how we think about the world, and how we might better usesuch ideas to do our thinking.AY 0168 Sex, Gender, and Sexual Orientation3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedThrough a comparison of selected Asian, Middle Eastern, African, andNative American societies, this course explores the ways that culturecan mold the biological facts of sexual difference into socially acceptedbehavior, creating two, and sometimes more, genders. Topics include theallocation of work, power, and prestige between men and women; thebelief systems that legitimate gender roles; and some possible causes forthe wide variation that exists among cultures.AY 0175 Sustainable Development: AnthropologicalPerspectives3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies ElectiveThis course examines the concept of sustainability from anthropologicalperspectives. With a focus on the contested meaning of both"sustainability" and "development," students will grapple with varioustheoretical, methodological, and ethical perspectives on how to build ajust future on a planet with ﬁnite resources. Learning is practice driven;students write blogs and reflective essays, they learn ethnographicresearch methods, and pursue independent research on sustainabilityin our campus community. Students integrate experiential learning withreadings on ecology and economic development to critically examine thevalues, assumptions and data that underpin different perspectives onsocial change and the future of humankind.AY 0180 Grant Writing for the Social Sciences3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional Skills ,EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, HASM Humanitarian Action MinorSkills/Method CourseThis course will introduce students to the practicalities of internationalresearch, with particular emphasis on qualitative social science methodsand the eventual aim of producing a viable grant proposal. The course willbe taught from an anthropological perspective, but the skills developedshould be broadly applicable to the social sciences and humanities.AY 0189 Theory and Practive in Anthropology3 CreditsThis course focuses on of the production of ethnographic knowledge,a form of intellectual inquiry at once art and science, evocation andexplication. Emerging in the 20th century as the preeminent form ofanthropological expression, ethnographies are one of the few scholarlymeans of understanding other cultures and societies in meaningfuldepth. At the same time, ethnographies reveal as much about thedisciplines and societies in which they are produced as they do aboutdistant "others."
AY 0199 Philosophy and Economic Anthropology3 CreditsAttributes: PMMP Philosophy Major: Major PhilosopherPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the economy from philosophical andanthropological perspectives. We will investigate why people produce andexchange things, why they seek to amass things in some circumstancesand give them away in others, and how our modern understandings ofvalue, debt, and rationality emerged.AY 0200 Anthropological Research Methods3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method CourseHow does anthropological ﬁeld research help us understand our lives,our communities, and our world? How might anthropological researchmethods help you explore and pursue your own passions or professionalambitions? In this course students conduct original anthropologicalﬁeld research, write an original journal article manuscript, and theydevelop an online portfolio to share results and conclusions beyondour classroom. Over the course of our semester, students learn andpractice techniques for designing, proposing, conducting, analyzing,and sharing anthropological ﬁeld research. The class is divided into foursections: Developing Your Research Question, Your Anthropology Toolkit,Anthropological Analysis and Writing, and a ﬁnal Research Symposium.AY 0390 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsSpecial Topics in Anthropology provides an opportunity for studentsand faculty to explore compelling themes that are not covered in thedepartment's regular course rotation and curriculum.AY 0390C Special Topics: Anthropology and Education3 CreditsThis course addresses key topics in anthropology and educationincluding: the study of schools and school systems, informal education,cross-cultural early childhood education, race, class, and the production/reproduction of inequality, (dis)ability, communication, and technology.Course readings focus on classic and contemporary anthropology andeducation texts including philosophies of education, ethnographies,and accounts of informal education in families, neighborhoods, andcommunities. Course requirements will be student-driven to expand uponand enhance research interests in a collaborative environment.AY 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsIndependent studies experiences provide intellectually curious studentswith opportunities to take the reins of their education, and delve deeplyinto the ideas and subjects that truly inspire them. Upon request andby agreement of an individual professor in the department, studentsundertake a one-semester independent study on a deﬁned research topicin anthropology.Applied Ethics (AE)AE 0262 Ethics and the Community3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course surveys the philosophical grounding of the organizationsin contemporary society, examining structured human groups from thehousehold, through the village (or religious/ethnic association), to thenation-state to understand their moral undertakings in their environment;to consider how they implement and balance rights and duties, rules andcompassion, autonomy and common purposes. This course gives specialattention to structural injustice in the treatment of those marginalizedby gender, race, or socioeconomic deﬁcit, and includes an effort todetermine where new understanding may yield suggestions for structuralmodiﬁcation. Students are provided the opportunity to research andpresent projects on contemporary social problems that illustrate thethemes of the course.AE 0265 Ethics in Education3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This survey of the ethical issues that arise in the classroom, school,and school district also covers those issues, to a lesser extent, in theeducational policies of the state and federal government. The coursedirectly addresses issues of race, class, and gender in the educationalsystem, addressing entitlement to education, access to education,discipline in the educational setting, multicultural issues in general,politics, accountability, assessment, and the ethics of respect as theypertain to teachers, students, and administrators.AE 0270 Ethical Dimensions of Global Violence3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.A survey of the ethical implications of the new and alarming potentialsfor violence in a disorderly world. The new faces of violence - insurgency,terrorism inspired by religion, plans for mass destruction, children aswarriors - will be examined in the context of Just War theory, the Christiancommitment to social justice, and the emerging international order(and disorder). Fully half the course will explore the perspectives of thedeveloping world, especially as violence occurs between factions fromthe developing world and the traditional wielders of force in the North andWest.AE 0271 The Sacred Balance3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course examines contemporary perspectives and diverse culturalworldviews demonstrating a reciprocal relationship between humanityand the natural world. This approach analyzes the ways establishedand new ﬁelds in the sciences can reunite knowledge of the world witha sense of the sacred. Extending into the realm of meaning and value,scientiﬁc as well as spiritual perspectives jointly address the ecologicalchallenges confronting contemporary society and the evolution of humanconsciousness.AE 0272 Ethics of Humanitarian Action3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course provides students with principles and methods of ethicsthat they will apply to issues of humanitarian action. Examples ofhumanitarian action to be considered in this course include theinternational humanitarian system run by states, non-governmentalorganizations (NGOs), the United Nations and its lead agencies and,increasingly, the private sector. Students also will learn about thedevelopment of humanitarian codes of conduct, values and principles,which they will evaluate in terms of their ethical content.AE 0275 Ethics and the Global Environment3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.A survey of environmental issues on the global scale, exploring ethicaland economic dilemmas of liberty and law, justice and welfare, conflictsof cultures, race, and gender, as they arise in the increasing interactionof developed and developing nations. The course focuses on the roleof science - with special reference to scientiﬁc uncertainty - in thearticulation of issues like global warming, the depletion of the ozonelayer, and species extinction. The ethical dilemmas and environmentalimplications of the work of multinational corporations are examinedthrough case studies and group discussion; term projects focus onselected areas and industries.
AE 0276 Ethical Dimensions of Global Business Practices3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, WDIV WorldDiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.A survey of the ethical dimensions of contemporary business practicegenerally, with special emphasis on the ethical implications of globalbusiness enterprise. Topics include global employment practices, humanand employee rights in a global economy, the implications of externaldebt for the economies of developing nations, the human costs andbeneﬁts of the changes in global agriculture and food provision generally,and the work of international agencies (the World Trade Organization, theInternational Monetary Fund, and the World Bank in particular) in guidingthe economies of the world. A three-week unit will focus on the economicimplications of natural and man made disasters and humanitarian crises.AE 0281 Ethics of Communications3 CreditsAttributes: ENEC Digital Journalism Ethics ComponentPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course examines the moral dilemmas of media management,political propaganda, campaign promo-tions, public relations, andcorporate communication. Topics include advertising and marketingpractices, especially political advocacy and messages targeted tovarious audiences; truth and loyalty in public relations practices; thephilosophical and constitutional bases of freedom of the press; andproblems of media bias, systematic and otherwise.AE 0282 Ethics and the Computer3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course examines the legal and ethical dilemmas spawned bythe proliferation of Internet-based technologies in an increasinglycomplex society. Topics include the philosophical foundations of theright of privacy; the centralization of power; the impact on employment,computer crime, patents, property, and liability; the tremendous powerof instantaneous Internet communications to influence world events;and the possibilities and implications of artiﬁcial intelligence. Centralconsideration is given to the digital divide: the potential for globalinjustice in global discordances between rich and poor societies inaccess to the Internet and other advanced technology.AE 0283 Environmental Justice3 CreditsAttributes: EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, PJST Peace and JusticeStudies, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course offers a comprehensive study of the political impact of ourglobal environmental crisis examined through the lens of the relationshipof self to society. We study current scientiﬁc, religious, economic, andpolitical perspectives that impact our ecological reality globally, includinghealth, trade, population, and waste issues. Working in self-selectedgroups, students have the opportunity to report on alternative models andactivists' movements aimed at creating a global sustainable future.AE 0284 Environmental Ethics3 CreditsAttributes: EVHU Environmental Studies: Humanities, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.Students examine the environmental problems that arise in our attemptsto reconcile the demands of human fulﬁllment and economic activity,and the requirements of ecological balance. Issues include the diverseperspectives of conservation, preservation, and deep ecology. Studentprojects cover the wise use of resources; pollution of land, air, and water;conservation of species and open space; global climatic change; and thefuture stewardship of oceans, forests, and the atmosphere.AE 0285 Ethics of Health Care3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and EthicsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course considers the moral dilemmas of the healthcare setting.Topics include patients' rights (medical paternalism and patientautonomy, informed consent to therapy, and participation in research);dilemmas of reproduction (technological assistance, abortion, cloning);dilemmas of life and death (assisted suicide, euthanasia, technologicalinterventions for the dying); allocation of healthcare resources; and thespecial dilemmas of healthcare professionals caught in binds betweenHMO contracts and professional obligations.AE 0286 Ethics of Research and Technology3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course explores the moral dilemmas that attend the search foran application of scientiﬁc knowledge. Topics include the methods ofscience and their limits (e.g., in research with human subjects); scientiﬁcfraud, its dimensions and prevention; and the effects of rapidly expandingﬁelds of technology on medicine and industry.AE 0287 Engineering Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course systematically explores the ethical dimensions ofsituations and tasks common to engineering practice. Issues includeprofessionalism, codes of ethics, consumer risk and safety, employeeloyalty and whistle-blowing, research and ownership of information, andthe engineer's responsibility to the natural environment.AE 0288 Ethical Dimensions of Global Humanitarian Policy3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course surveys the ethical dilemmas that arise in the context ofglobal need and global opportunity, speciﬁcally the needs of physical,psychological, and spiritual sustenance and support created inthe developing world by many kinds of violence, exploitation, andenvironmental crises, and the opportunities perceived in the developedworld to provide assistance through international, governmental, and non-governmental avenues. Topics include the ethical analyses of emergingcrises and assessments of needs; the typical structures of assistance,public and private, and the consequences (intended or otherwise) ofdeploying them; and the dilemmas of seeking and assessing help fromdonors of uncertain motives and histories.AE 0289 Global Health Care Ethics3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This survey of issues of public health on a global scale explores theethical and economic dilemmas of environmental degradation, nationalsovereignty, individual liberty, and human happiness and productivityas they arise in the increasing interaction of developed and developingnations. The course studies conditions prevalent in developing nations- poverty, hunger, the absence of physical and social infrastructure, anduneven education, as well as the role of gender and race discrimination- and examines ethical dilemmas confronted in the efforts to deal withhealth conditions in the developing nations, through case studies andgroup discussion; term projects focus on selected regions and healthconditions.
AE 0290 Ethics in America: Telecourse3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course is a survey of practical ethics, in which televised discussionsof selected topics in applied ethics (ethics in government, ethics inthe military, medical ethics, business ethics, etc.) illustrate the basicconcepts of the Western tradition in ethical reasoning (autonomy, justice,privacy, community, etc.). The discussions feature influential publicﬁgures in each ﬁeld; readings include important writings in the history ofethics. Format: lecture/discussion with in-class video presentations.AE 0291 Business Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course investigates ethical problems in business practice. Topicsinclude the foundation of the free-market system, personal morality inproﬁt-oriented enterprises; codes of ethics, obligations to employees andother stakeholders; truth in advertising, whistle-blowing, and companyloyalty; self and government regulation; the logic and future of capitalism;and the changing responsibilities of the manager in a rapidly globalizingbusiness environment.AE 0293 Ethics of War and Peace3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This is a survey of issues relating to war and international conflict. Topicsinclude Just War theory, human rights issues, the impact of war onwomen, the role of the United Nations Security Council, and the historyof global attempts to proscribe and prevent aggression. The coursealso looks at related issues that have emerged in recent years, such ashumanitarian intervention and economic sanctions.AE 0294 Ethics of Media and Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ENEC Digital Journalism Ethics ComponentPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course explores the ethical dimensions of the complex relationshipbetween the media and the political process. The media is the onlyindustry protected by the Bill of Rights, and for good reason: it is criticalfor a democracy to have well-informed citizens. The course looks at theresponsibility of the media, and the difﬁculties of fulﬁllment in a capitalistsociety. Who needs to be informed? What is the role of the government inproviding information? Students learn ethics from informed discussions,study, and writing on the cases presented.AE 0295 Ethics in Law and Society3 CreditsPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course is an inquiry into the ethical dilemmas of making, enforcing,adjudicating, obeying and practicing the law. Topics include the natureof law and the province of jurisprudence, responsibility of the criminalbar (defense, prosecution, judicial), conflicts of interest, election orappointment of judges, the moral infrastructure of the Constitution, thelimits of adjudication, and issues relating to investigative technique(torture and extreme conﬁnement conditions).AE 0296 Ethics in Government3 CreditsAttributes: ENEC Digital Journalism Ethics ComponentPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course examines the moral dilemmas pertaining to governingand being governed. Topics include the ethical dimensions of makingpublic policy; civil rights and civil liberties; the "establishment of justice"with regard to minorities, women, immigrants, and those politicallyat risk; corruption in government; war, peace, revolution, and themoral principles that govern them; terrorism and the defense againstterrorism; preservation of the environment; and the nature and limits ofrepresentative government.AE 0297 Ecofeminism3 CreditsAttributes: EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, PJST Peace and JusticeStudies, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course explores the historically strong association between womenand nature, in which the image of Mother Earth is central, and critiquesthe power-as-domination assumption of our culture shown in theexploitation of women and of the earth. Students examine religious,psychological, social, historical, and scientiﬁc manifestations of thisassumption, along with alternative models of power and responsibility.AE 0298 Ethics and Feminist Perspectives3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One course in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This course offers a philosophical inquiry into the implications oftraditional ethical theory and social institutions from perspectivesdeveloped in contemporary feminist literature. Examined through thelens of race, class, and gender, speciﬁc areas include family, health, work,and media issues. The course explores the psychological and ethicaldimensions of social and family oppression, environmental racism,medical paternalism, economic imperialism, and patriarchal structures inthe major religious traditions.AE 0299 Special Topics in Applied Ethics (Shell)3 CreditsThe course is an opportunity for the student to carry out a major projectin Applied Ethics involving work in the community, derived from aprevious Applied Ethics course.AE 0384 Reflections of the Environment: Focus on Latin America and theCaribbean3 CreditsAttributes: EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar examines environmental, ethical, and socio-economicissues of Latin America and the Caribbean. It integrates the hardsciences (biology, chemistry, physics, and physical geography), thesocial sciences (sociology, politics, economics, and business), andthe humanities (history, ethics, theology, and literature). The capstoneexperience provides students with an overview of multiple perspectiveson the environment of Latin America and the Caribbean with a focuson some speciﬁc countries and issues. Students conduct independentresearch projects that demonstrate their mastery of at least onecomponent of each disciplinary group. This seminar counts for thecapstone requirement for the minor in Applied Ethics and the minor inLatin American and Caribbean Studies.AE 0391 Seminar in Business Law, Regulation, and Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar investigates ethical dilemmas of business management,primarily as encountered in real cases. Themes vary from year to year.Format: guest presentations by members of the business community,followed by discussion.AE 0393 Seminar in War, Peace, and Public Policy3 CreditsPrerequisite: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar examines the philosophical, political, and religious aspectsof war and peace. Topics include the origin and development of just wartheory, the paciﬁst tradition, revolution, guerrilla warfare, and militarypreparedness. The course focuses on the increased complexity of theseissues in the 20th century and especially in the nuclear age.
AE 0395 Seminar in Legal Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar examines the peculiar ethical dilemmas confrontinglawyers: conﬁdentiality, protection of the guilty, roles in public policy,conflict of interest, and, in general, responsibility for the functioning ofthe adversary system.AE 0397 Seminar in Bioethics I: Ethical Issues in Health CarePractice3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, UDIVU.S. DiversityPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar presents an intensive study of select problems in the ethicsof medicine and healthcare practice, including abortion; euthanasia;prenatal diagnosis; reproductive engineering and surrogate motherhood;and treatment decisions for very ill newborns.AE 0398 Seminar in Bioethics II: Ethical Issues in Biomedical Researchand Resource Allocation3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and EthicsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy or Religious Studies.This seminar offers an intensive study of select problems in theethics, law, and public policy surrounding healthcare, especially inthe United States. Topics include research with human subjects, theprofessional/patient relationship, allocation of scarce resources, and costcontainment.AE 0399 Special Topics in Applied Ethics3 CreditsStudents undertake an advanced program of course, ﬁeld, and librarywork arranged with the instructor. Proposals for special topics must beapproved by the director and the dean of the student's school.Arabic (AR)AR 0110 Elementary Modern Standard Arabic I3 CreditsThe ﬁrst course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, teaches theessentials of phonology, script, structure, and usage, allowing studentsto acquire the skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing in thestandard means of communicating in the Arab world. Teaching isproﬁciency-based, implying that all activities within the courses areaimed at placing student learners in the context of the native-speakingenvironment.AR 0111 Elementary Modern Standard Arabic II3 CreditsPrerequisite: AR 0110.A continuation of AR 0110, this course teaches the essentials ofphonology, script, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing in the standard means ofcommunicating in the Arab world. Teaching is proﬁciency-based, implyingthat all activities within the courses are aimed at placing student learnersin the context of the native-speaking environment.AR 0210 Intermediate Modern Standard Arabic I3 CreditsPrerequisite: AR 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, continues to buildupon the skills acquired in the ﬁrst-year course. Emphasis will be placedupon improving grammar, listening comprehension, and speaking andreading skills. Students will gain conﬁdence in conversing with nativespeakers on a variety of topics, will be able to write more complex textson everyday themes, and will acquire the skills to read uncomplicatedauthentic texts, such as newspaper articles on familiar topics.AR 0211 Intermediate Modern Standard Arabic II3 CreditsPrerequisite: AR 0210.A continuation of AR 0210, this course continues to build upon the skillsacquired in the ﬁrst-year course. Emphasis will be placed upon improvinggrammar, listening comprehension, and speaking and reading skills.Students will gain conﬁdence in conversing with native speakers on avariety of topics, will be able to write more complex texts on everydaythemes, and will acquire the skills to read uncomplicated authentic texts,such as newspaper articles on familiar topics.AR 0215 Intermediate Intensive Modern Standard Arabic6 CreditsPrerequisite: AR 0111.This intensive second-year course is designed to build upon skills oflistening, speaking, reading and writing developed in earlier elementarycourses. Students will acquire a broader range of vocabulary and beintroduced to more complex grammatical structures. Students will learnto recognize and understand a wider range of cultural and linguisticcomponents. Students will also increase their proﬁciency in Arabic scriptand sound system, and practice more conversation and dictation. WeeklyOral Practice Sessions (OPS) are mandatory.AR 0220 Advanced Modern Standard Arabic I3 CreditsPrerequisite: AR 0211 or AR 0215.This course will continue to build on work completed through theintermediate level. Emphasis will be placed upon mastering moreadvanced grammar, and speaking, listening and reading skills at anAdvanced-Low level. Students will gain more conﬁdence in conversingwith native speakers on a variety of topics. The course will lead studentstowards a fairly comprehensive understanding of Arabic languagefeatures through the study of a variety of documents (written, audioand video). The selection of documents will also serve as a basis fordiscussion on some social issues regarding the contemporary Arabic-speaking world, as well as the history and cultural backgrounds. Studentsare required to attend one weekly one-hour Oral Practice Session (OPS).AR 0381 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Arabiclanguage and culture, under the direction of a staff member. Designedto ﬁll the special needs of speciﬁc students, this course is offered at thediscretion of the department chair.AR 0382 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Arabiclanguage and culture, under the direction of a staff member. Designedto ﬁll the special needs of speciﬁc students, this course is offered at thediscretion of the department chair.Art History (AH)AH 0010 Origins and Transformations in Western Art3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseFrom the mysterious depths of Paleolithic cave painting to the soaringheights of Gothic cathedral vaulting, this course surveys the earlyhistory of Western art. The course begin with the origins of art-making inprehistoric, Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Greek, and Roman cultures beforeviewing the transformations of these ancient arts traditions in earlyChristian and medieval societies. The course offers students a workingvocabulary with which to compose visual analyses of works of art andevaluate them in a social and historical context. One class takes place atthe Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.
AH 0011 Visual Culture Since 1400: Expression andExperimentation3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course explores the ways in which people use images to recordtheir world. From the development of linear perspective in the earlyRenaissance to the assimilation of advances in optical sciences in thebaroque period and the incorporation of photography in the 19th century,art has responded to technological advances and created distinct andexpressive visual cultures. By exploring painting, sculpture, the graphicarts, and architecture, students learn to analyze how the contemporaryworld is designed and deﬁned by a visual heritage that incorporateshistorical images into ﬁlm, television, and advertising. One class takesplace at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.AH 0013 Art of Africa, the Caribbean, and the Americas3 CreditsAttributes: BSCC Black Studies Component Course, GDAH GraphicDesign: Art History, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History Course, WDIV World DiversityThis course is an introduction to art and architecture of Africa, theCaribbean islands, and Central America, South America and NorthAmerica. Major works of art and architecture will be examined tounderstand the respective cultures and traditions of these regions.Cultures designated by their geographical locations will provide a frameof study for African visual culture. Art of Caribbean islands and theinfluence of the African diaspora will be explored. The Americas will berepresented by Pre-Columbian and Native American visual arts. Studentswill be introduced to different art historical approaches and vocabularyused to study art from each of these areas.AH 0014 Art of Asia3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History Course, WDIV World DiversityThis course introduces major monuments of the arts of Asia, includingarchitecture, painting, sculpture, ceramics, and prints. Following aroughly chronological progression spanning over three millennia, thecourse emphasizes contact between Asian civilizations, including South,Southeast, Central, and East Asia, as well as artistic exchanges betweenAsia and the West. Foci include: ancient funerary arts, the development ofBuddhist art throughout the continent, and secular arts associated withimperial courts and the rise of cities. The course highlights collections ofAsian art at the Bellarmine Museum, Yale University, and in New York City.AH 0015 History of Architecture3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis introductory course surveys the major periods and key monumentsin the history of architecture - largely in the West - from antiquityto the present. Topics include Greek and Roman temples and civicarchitecture; Medieval mosques and cathedrals; Renaissance andBaroque cities and their monuments; Early Modern factories and gardens;Machine Age museums and houses; and contemporary architecturaldevelopments of all sorts. Students will work with actual buildingsin writing assignments, and learn the skills necessary to critique andinterpret the built environment of the past and present in the UnitedStates and beyond.AH 0102 Art of East Asia3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History Course, WDIV World DiversityThis course surveys the art and architectural history of China, Korea, andJapan, emphasizing cultural and artistic contact between these cultures.Periods of focus include the Shang, Han, Tang, Song, and Qing dynastiesin China; the Jōmon, Nara, Heian, Kamakura, Edo and Meiji periods inJapan; and the Three Kingdoms period, Goryeo, and Joseon dynasties inKorea. The course highlights collections of Asian art at Yale Universityand in New York City, incorporating special exhibitions of East Asian artrelevant to the course.AH 0109 Jewish Art: Moses to Modernity3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, JST Judaic Studies Minor,VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThe earliest known written description of the Jewish people is a visualrecord on an ancient victory monument. Dated from the 13th centuryB.C.E., a carved stele dedicated to Pharaoh Merneptah presents ahieroglyphic relief inauspiciously boasting: "Israel is laid waste, hisseed is no more." Tracing 4,000 years ofJewish art, culture, and ritual,this course is a panoramic overview of visual expression of a peoplewandering through six continents, innumerable styles and artisticidentities. How did the ineffable theophany at Sinai spark the complexityof Judaism's struggle with Greco-Roman pagan idolatry versus attemptsat capturing the "spirit of God with wisdom and discernment and theknowledge of workmanship to design designs" [Exodus 35] transformingspirituality into a living art?AH 0111 Greek Art and Archaeology3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis survey covers the major developments in architecture, sculpture, andpainting from the time of Homer to the collapse of the Hellenistic world.The course considers the formation of the Pan-Hellenic sanctuaries ofOlympia and Delphi in the geometric and archaic periods and the riseof democracy under the leadership of Pericles in Athens, culminatingin the Parthenon of the high classical period and the creation of anempire under Alexander the Great. Students explore the legacy of Greekachievement in the context of its impact on the Roman world and laterart. The course emphasizes objects in area museums and includes ﬁeldtrips.AH 0112 Etruscan and Roman Art and Archaeology3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseIn this course we will examine art of the Roman Republic and empire,beginning with an introduction to Etruscan Italy before Roman conquest.The major themes of the course are: society as reflected in portraiture;religion as communicated in temple and domestic architecture anddecoration; the organization and architecture of urban spaces; thearchitecture and decoration of houses. These themes will also be relatedto the art of other places and times, including that of the ancient Greeksand our own society. The course emphasizes objects in area museumsand includes trips to world-class museums in our region.
AH 0113 Art and Archaeology of Ancient Egypt: Images forEternity3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course, devoted to the history of ancient Egyptian art from thepre-dynastic period (4200 B.C.E.) to the time of the Roman occupation(100 C.E.), focuses on major themes, important stylistic movements,and selected masterpieces of Egyptian architecture, sculpture, relief,painting, and minor arts. Students consider the formation of major artsin the pre-dynastic period; great monuments of the Old Kingdom such asDjoser, Khufu, and Khafre pyramid complexes; classical art of the MiddleKingdom with its royal temples, pyramids, and tombs; New Kingdomtemples at Karnak and Luxor; and the splendor and revolution of Amarnaart. The course emphasizes objects in area collections, especially in theMetropolitan Museum of Art.AH 0120 Medieval Art of Western Europe3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, FREN FrenchCourse Taught in English, GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis introduction to medieval art and architecture in Western Europe-- from its Roman, Jewish, and early Christian sources to the Gothicperiod -- explores continuity and change in art and society, includingrelationships to Islamic and Byzantine art. Themes of the course includethe relationship of belief and ritual to religious imagery and architecture,the impact of imperial and ecclesiastical patronage, and the influence ofother cultures on art forms and iconography. The course includes a ﬁeldtrip.AH 0121 Celtic and Early Irish Art3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, GDAH GraphicDesign: Art History, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: HistoryCourseThis course traces Celtic art from its sources and history on the Europeancontinent (1200 B.C.E. to the ﬁrst century C.E.) to its migration to theBritish Isles and its subsequent transformation as it interacts withnative cultures there, particularly the Irish culture. It examines nativeIrish art from the stone circles and passage graves of 3000-2000 B.C.E.to the introduction of the Celtic style and the golden age of Ireland'sconversion to Christianity. Rich new art forms such as illustrated bibles,jeweled chalices and reliquaries, high crosses, and the introduction ofmonastic and ecclesiastical architecture will be discussed. The coursealso considers the medieval revivals in the 19th and 20th centuries andincludes a ﬁrst-hand examination of Fairﬁeld University's facsimile of theBook of Kells.AH 0130 Early Renaissance Art in Italy3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, GDAH GraphicDesign: Art History, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseIn this panoramic overview of Italian art, culture, and society between1300 and 1520, we explore the city of Florence as the "cradle of anew world." From its art workshops and urban planning studios, themonumental Duomo of Brunelleschi rises to symbolize a new era forhuman creativity. Viewing masterpiece artworks, we discover the excitingshift from medieval formalism to a new aristocratic elegance, opulence,and classical humanism. In this interdisciplinary humanities course, wecontrast and compare aspects of Florentine culture as symbolized andvisualized in the arts. Artworks depict banking, science, engineering,diplomacy, women's traditional roles of domesticity in the court, and anew appreciation for clothing fashions. Course includes visits to world-renowned area museums allowing students to study ﬁrst-hand primeexamples of Florentine art. No prerequisite beyond a curiosity to learnhow Renaissance art of the past enriches our lives in the present.AH 0131 High Renaissance and Mannerism in Italy3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, ISIF ItalianStudies: Italy-Focused, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: HistoryCourseThis course examines the achievements of artists during one of therichest art-historical eras. We trace the rise of artistic giants such asLeonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Raphael and the socio-culturalcontexts in which they worked. Innovations of Mannerists such asPontormo, Bronzino, and Correggio will be considered, as well as thereaction to these artists in the wake of religious reform.AH 0135 Renaissance and Baroque Architecture3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, GDAH GraphicDesign: Art History, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseIn this survey of the architecture and urbanism of 15th- through early18th-century Europe and its colonial world, we will address topics suchas the Renaissance revival of antiquity and its impact on architecture, thechanging nature of architectural practice, the role of religious orders likethe Jesuits in changing architectural style and taste, and the importanceof new ideas about architecture and cities.AH 0140 Baroque Art3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, GDAH GraphicDesign: Art History, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThe 17th century in Europe was marked by profound shifts in politics,religion, and culture, which are reflected in the art produced during then.This course surveys painting, sculpture, architecture, and urbanism of theBaroque era, with a focus on Italy, Spain, and France. Among the themesexplored are: the impact of religious reform on the visual arts of Catholiclands; the notion of classicism as an artistic ideal; the role of academiesand the market in promoting the arts; the popularity of portraiture andself-portraiture; and the shaping of cities as works of art.
AH 0152 Modern Art3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseIn this course we explore a diverse range of art works and issues, whichwere central to the practice of Modern Art in Europe and the UnitedStates from the mid-nineteenth century to the mid-twentieth century. Thiscourse focuses on the artists who challenged the institution of Westernart, re-interpreted its norms, and used Modernism as both subject andcontext. Class revolutions, industrialization, urbanization, imperialism,and capitalism are addressed through a close study of various artistsand artworks. The enormous impact of European Modern Art on therest of the world is considered with the examination of orientalism,primitivism, and "colonial" modernisms. A variety of sources such asnovels, philosophical and political texts, ﬁlms, newspapers, and music areused to inform our understanding of these -isms and Modern Art.AH 0164 American Art and Media Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCHVisual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseIn tracing the themes and artistic statements of American artists,the course takes special notice of unifying national myths such astheFounding Fathers, Manifest Destiny, America as the new Eden, thefrontier from the Rockies to the lunar surface, heroes from Davy Crockettto Superman, and America as utopia. Through the masterpieces ofChurch, Cole, Homer, Eakins, Sloan, Hopper, Pollock, Rothko, Wyeth,Warhol, and the Downtown art scene, the course answers the question:What is uniquely American about American art?AH 0165 The Black Experience: African-American Art and Criticism in the20th and 21st Centuries3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities,BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, GDAH Graphic Design: Art History,UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: HistoryCourseThis course explores black art and culture in the twentieth century. Wewill focus on the artworks themselves and, when possible, the artist'sdialogue. Events in United States history such as the emancipation fromslavery and the Civil War Era, the Harlem Renaissance, Jazz Age, GreatDepression, Civil Rights Movements, AIDS crisis of the 80's, and the LosAngeles race riots of the 90's are used as context to understand blackart and culture. While art works created by African-American artists arethe primary focus, Cuban and Haitian art and artists are also considered.Throughout the course there is a focus on thinking critically when lookingat art as well as how to articulate ideas in writing.AH 0172 History of Photography3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseStudents will learn the general historical development of photographyfrom the 1830s to the present day. Concentrating primarily on Europe andthe United States, this survey examines some of the themes threadedthroughout photography's short history: the interrelationships betweenphotography and other arts, the effect of technology on the medium,identity construction by and through photographs, and the tradition of thepopular photograph. Social, cultural, and economic issues are consideredas well as important photographers and photographic movements.Throughout the course there is a focus on thinking critically when lookingat a photograph as well as how to articulate ideas in writing.AH 0175 Contemporary Art3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course offers a historical, critical, and stylistic analysis of majortrends in contemporary art in Europe and the United States, giving specialconsideration to artist dialogue (text and video) and criticism. The coursespeciﬁcally examines art against the broader cultural, political, social, andphilosophical context of the artwork. The course emphasizes objects inarea museums.AH 0191 Art and Mythologies of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, BolshevikRussia: Comparative Systems & Outcomes3 CreditsAttributes: GDAH Graphic Design: Art History, GMEL German Major orMinor Course, GMEN German Course Taught in English, ISIC ItalianStudies: Italy Component, JST Judaic Studies Minor, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis interdisciplinary approach to the visual Zeitgeist of these majorpolitical/national crises in Europe between 1917 and 1945 surveys thevisual rhetoric of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Bolshevik Russiathrough the widest possible deﬁnition of the visual arts. The courseincludes the traditional ﬁne arts of painting, sculpture, and architectureas well as the mass cultural outlets of ﬁlm, radio, propaganda posters,and the staging of public events. The class eliminates the distinctionsbetween high and utilitarian mediums of expression; all means ofpersuasion are fair game. This course allows students to betterunderstand the complexities of these political/nationalist issues; the"window" is the lens provided by the visual arts and mass media. Indoing so, students recognize how the symbolic languages of mythologywere married to political ideologies and shaped public opinion from thenational consciousness.AH 0192 The History, Theory, and Practice of Museums3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course focuses on the history and theory of museums, theiroperations and roles in society and the practical application of museumtheory. Students will put the rapidly evolving ﬁeld of museum studiesinto a meaningful context while simultaneously gaining a clearerunderstanding of contemporary industry standards and modes of bestprofessional practice.AH 0193 Inside Museums and Galleries: Taste, Place, PublicSpace3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course explores the interactive role of the curator and the museumand gallery visitor in the dynamic cultural spaces of museums, galleries,and public historic spaces, parks, monuments, etc. We explore theresponsibilities, ethics, and educational goals for the professional staffof not-for-proﬁt museums in terms of serving the common good of thegeneral public. If museums are "temples of culture," then we need tounderstand the ways these public "faiths" act while open and engagingfor all. In contrast, we highlight the similarities and differences whenartworks or collectible objects are placed into a commercialized, forproﬁt-gallery/auction house context. This is an introductory course,welcoming students ready to experience and learn about the richspectrum of museums, galleries, auction houses, and cultural institutionswithin the Tri-State area. Field trips include visits with top professionalswho share their expertise and experiences.AH 0195 Introduction to Museum Studies3 CreditsThis course explores the role of the museum and gallery curator as wellas the curator's responsibilities to the object, the museum, and collectors;and federal and corporate funding. The course includes ﬁeld trips.
AH 0209 The Historic Plaster Cast Collection at FairﬁeldUniversity3 CreditsPrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course.Students will study the history of plaster cast collections in Europe andthe U.S. including Fairﬁeld's growing collection. Emphasis will be givento the Fairﬁeld collection by conducting research on the plaster casts.Students will assist with museum and website information. Students willclean and apply light restoration to plaster casts in preparation for theirdisplay in different areas on campus. Class visits to the Slater Museum,the Institute for Classical Architecture, and the Metropolitan Museumof Art will be scheduled. Consultation with curators and sculptors willprovide additional guidance to students.AH 0210 Myth in Classical Art3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course or permission ofthe instructor.Greek and Roman art serve as a rich depository of Greek mythologywith a wide range of representations that evolved across the centuries.As a source of information, classical art sometimes preserves mythsthat are otherwise unknown in the surviving literature. In some casesvisual representations date earlier than an extant literary descriptionor differ in the story details. This course focuses on ancient sources -visual and literary - to study the Olympian gods; the heroes, Perseus,Herakles, Theseus, and Odysseus; the Trojan War; and battles such asthe gods and giants, Lapiths and Centaurs, and Amazons and Greeks. Thecourse compares the appearance of certain of these myths on speciﬁcmonuments during certain periods in the classical world, emphasizingexamples in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Yale University ArtGallery, and the Historic Plaster Cast Collection at Fairﬁeld.AH 0221 The Arts of Ireland and the British Isles, 500-10003 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course or permission ofthe instructor.This course explores the art and architecture produced in Ireland,England, and Scotland during the early medieval period, often called the"Golden Age of Insular Art." It was an era of rich cultural exchange duringwhich Irish and continental monks were instrumental in the spread ofChristianity throughout the British Isles; Irish settled in Scotland; theAnglo-Saxon kingdom was established in England; and Vikings invadedIreland and Britain. Arts in all media combined pre-Christian Celticand Germanic traditions with new Christian forms. Irish monasteriesthroughout the British Isles were centers of production for sumptuousmanuscripts such as the Book of Kells and liturgical vessels includingthe Ardagh Chalice. Monastic architecture and high crosses will also beconsidered, as well as secular objects such as aristocratic jewelry.AH 0222 Byzantine Art3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course or permission ofthe instructor.This course focuses on the art of the medieval Byzantine Empire, a periodof strong imperial patronage that saw the rise of Christianity and itsassociated new forms of art and architecture. The course is organizedchronologically, from Byzantine art's late antique Pagan Roman, EarlyChristian, and Jewish sources to its relationship to Islamic art and itslater impact on the development of the arts of Western Europe andRussia. The major themes of the course are: the relationship of beliefand ritual to religious imagery and architecture; cultural exchange andinfluence on art forms and iconography; and the impact of imperialpatronage on art and architecture. These themes will also be relatedto the art of other places and times, including our own. We will explorecontinuity and change in the content and style of Byzantine Art over time,while constantly being aware of the relationship between art and society.AH 0290 Special Topics in Art History3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course or permission ofthe instructor.Students conduct an in-depth study of a speciﬁc subject in the history ofart.AH 0292 Museums, Art, Ethics, and the Law3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: One 100-level or lower art history course or permission ofthe instructor.This course examines the complex legal and ethical issues surroundingthe conception, creation, communication, display, reproduction,ownership, transfer, and protection of works of art. The ﬁrst unit isdevoted to deﬁning "art" and discussing artists' rights. The legal andethical constraints affecting museums, collectors and the art marketgenerally will be covered in the second unit, while the third unit willgrapple with the problematic area of cultural property (with particularemphasis on looting, plunder, identity, trade, reparation, restitution andrestitution). In each of these three segments, we shall read and discussrelevant case law, as well as a number of commentaries authored byleading experts in the ﬁeld.AH 0300 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis in-depth exploration of a speciﬁc topic in art history involvesstudents in independent research and ﬁeld study. Open to students withapproval of a faculty member and the director of the Art History program.AH 0310 Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseInternships allow students to gain hands-on experience in ﬁelds relatedto art history through supervised work for galleries, museums, auctionhouses, and other venues. Internships give students experience in aprofessional environment, help them to identify possible career paths,and give them skills that they do not acquire in the classroom. Studentsmay apply for on-campus internships at Fairﬁeld's Bellarmine Museum ofArt or Thomas J. Walsh Art Gallery, or pursue placement in local or NewYork City arts institutions. Internships require permission from the ArtHistory program's internship coordinator before registration.
AH 0320 Junior Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History Course, WSGFWomen, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedRequired of all art history majors in the fall semester of the junior year,this seminar introduces students to the history of the discipline ofArt History. Students learn the different methods and approaches arthistorians use to study works of art, and apply these approaches throughdiscussion and written assignments.AH 0330 Senior Capstone Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseRequired of all art history majors in the spring semester of the senioryear, this seminar offers rotating topics that reflect the areas of expertiseand research among Fairﬁeld's art history faculty members andculminates in an in-depth research project.AH 0330A Senior Capstone Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseSee AH 0330.Asian Studies (AN)AN 0301 Independent Study1-3 CreditsStudents undertake an individualized program of study in consultationwith a director from the Asian studies faculty.AN 0310 Asian Studies Seminar3 CreditsThis seminar examines selected topics concerning Asia. This course istaught in conjunction with another 100-300 level course from a rotationof course offerings. Consult the Asian Studies director to identify theconjoined course for a given semester. The seminar concentrates ontopics within the parameters of the conjoined course syllabus butadds research emphasis. Students registered for this course mustcomplete a research project, to include 300-level research, in additionto the regular research requirements of the conjoined course, and a25-50 page term paper in substitution of some portion of the conjoinedcourse requirements, as determined by the instructor. Open to juniors andseniors only.Bioengineering (BEN)BEN 0201 Biomechanics3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0145, PS 0115.This course covers solid mechanics of bone with a focus on stress,strain, stiffness, and strength. Joint forces and muscle attachments willbe analyzed using free-body diagrams. Introductory musculoskeletalphysiology will be covered and Biopac Student Lab software will be usedfor gait and muscle force analysis.BEN 0300 Biomedical Instrumentation4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyPrerequisites: BI 0107 or BI 0170; EE 0213.Instrumentation and techniques used in acquisition, processing, andpresentation of biomedical signals: transducers, sensors, Fourieranalysis, flow measurement, biosensors, ampliﬁers, bridge circuits, andmeasurement of physical parameters and electrophysiological signals.BEN 0331 Biomedical Signal Processing3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyPrerequisites: CS 0131 or CS 0142 or SW 0407; MA 0146.This course presents an overview of different methods used inbiomedical signal processing. Signals with bioelectric origin are givenspecial attention and their properties and clinical signiﬁcance arereviewed. In many cases, the methods used for processing and analyzingbiomedical signals are derived from a modeling perspective based onstatistical signal descriptions. The purpose of the signal processingmethods ranges from reduction of noise and artifacts to extraction ofclinically signiﬁcant features. The course gives each participant theopportunity to study the performance of a method on real, biomedicalsignals.BEN 0332 Biomedical Imaging3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyPrerequisite: BEN 0331 or CR 0331.This course presents the fundamentals and applications of commonmedical imaging techniques, for example: x-ray imaging and computedtomography, nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound,and optical imaging. In addition, as a basis for biomedical imaging,introductory material on general image formation concepts andcharacteristics are presented, including human visual perception andpsychophysics.BEN 0333 Biomedical Visualization3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131.This course is an introduction to 3-D biomedical visualization. Varioustechnologies are introduced, including UltraSound, MRI, CAT scans,PET scans, etc. Students will learn about spatial data structures,computational geometry and solid modeling with applications in 3-Dmolecular and anatomical modeling.BEN 0390 Bioengineering Design Project I3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of all non-elective program courses; completionof other program requirements to enable graduation within the year ofcompletion of BEN 0391.In this capstone course, students work in teams on advanced projectsthat emphasize engineering design with due attention to designconstraints and engineering standards. The overarching scope of thiscourse is to transform engineering students to practicing engineers.Under the guidance of a faculty instructor and a mentor, each teamconducts literature searches, write a technical proposal and its membersdevelop skills in information analysis and synthesis; they model andtest prototypes of their devices, and make frequent oral and posterpresentations of their work to faculty and peers, and submit timelyprogress reports. In the process, they receive instruction in effectivecommunication and presentation practices, and develop an appreciationof teamwork and collective success. This two-semester course beginsin the fall of the academic year and concludes at the end of the springterm with a ﬁnal team oral presentation and a ﬁnal written report, and aworking prototype of the team's project.
BEN 0391 Bioengineering Design Project II3 CreditsPrerequisite: EG 0390.In this capstone course, students work in teams on advanced projectsthat emphasize engineering design with due attention to designconstraints and engineering standards. The overarching scope of thiscourse is to transform engineering students to practicing engineers.Under the guidance of a faculty instructor and a mentor, each teamconducts literature searches, write a technical proposal and its membersdevelop skills in information analysis and synthesis; they model andtest prototypes of their devices, and make frequent oral and posterpresentations of their work to faculty and peers, and submit timelyprogress reports. In the process, they receive instruction in effectivecommunication and presentation practices, and develop an appreciationof teamwork and collective success. This two-semester course beginsin the fall of the academic year and concludes at the end of the springterm with a ﬁnal team oral presentation and a ﬁnal written report, and aworking prototype of the team's project.Biology (BI)BI 0015 Fundamentals of Biology I3 CreditsThis course, an introductory study of biology for the non-science major,familiarizes students with the general biological principles that governthe activities of all living systems. Concepts include the biochemicalorigin of life, cellular morphology and physiology, and human genetics.Note: This course counts as a natural science core but does not satisfyrequirements for the biology major or minor.BI 0016 Fundamentals of Biology II3 CreditsStudents examine biological systems, such as the human organism,in detail, with an emphasis on pathophysiology, diversity of life, andevolution. Emphasis varies by instructor. Note: This course counts as anatural science core but does not satisfy requirements for the biologymajor or minor.BI 0018 Human Biology: Form and Function3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, HSST Health Studies:Science and TechnologyThis course, which provides a basic introduction to human anatomy andphysiology, examines the major organ systems of the body, focusingon how each system functions and how all systems interact with oneanother. Genetics, disease and prevention, nutrition, current issuesin public health, and environmental health problems that humanpopulations face are discussed. Note: This course counts as a naturalscience core but does not satisfy requirements for the biology major orminor.BI 0070 Science, Technology, and Society3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateThis course analyzes the major science and technology issues thatconfront today's society. Through an examination of the underlyingscience, students gain an understanding of the impact these issues holdfor the environment, our natural resources, and our society, includingbeneﬁt versus hazard expectations. Course issues, which changeto incorporate timely topics, include acid rain; agriculture; diseasessuch as AIDS, cancer, and heart disease; energy; genetic engineering;the greenhouse effect; ozone depletion; and water pollution. Note:This course counts as a natural science core but does not satisfyrequirements for the biology major or minor.BI 0071 Identity and the Human Genome3 CreditsAttributes: BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSC Black Studies:Physical and Natural Sciences, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedThis course introduces human genetics to the non-science major. Topicsof discussion include the structure and function of genes, modes ofinheritance, stem cell research, sex and gender and human geneticdiversity. Special emphasis is placed on ethical, legal and social issuesrelated to the knowledge and application of genetic information. Note:This course counts as a natural science core but does not satisfyrequirements for the biology major or minor.BI 0073 Contemporary Nutrition: Food for Thought3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyThis course will introduce non-science majors to the core biologicalprocesses of nutrition, and contemporary nutrition concerns related tohuman growth and well-being throughout life. The course will includematerial on: food selection and preparation, sensory evaluation, humannutrition, diet analysis, and the relationship between diet and disease.Students will gain the knowledge and skill development necessary toachieve a nutritionally healthy lifestyle. Note: This course counts as anatural science core but does not satisfy requirements for the biologymajor or minor.BI 0074 Biology of Food3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElectiveThis course will introduce non-science majors to the biologicalprocesses behind the food that we produce and harvest as well asthe environmental consequences of our diet choices. This course willinclude material on: the rise of agriculture, plant and animal growthrequirements and life cycles, evolution, and a description and discussionof food organisms in the modern North American diet, techniques of foodproduction and effects on the environment. Note: This course counts asa natural science core but does not satisfy requirements for the biologymajor or minor.BI 0075 Ecology and Society3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice StudiesThis course focuses on environmental issues raised by modern society'sconflicting needs for land, water, a livable environment, and renewable/nonrenewable resources. Students examine the available scientiﬁcevidence and are encouraged to draw their own conclusions concerningthese environmentally sensitive issues, which are presented in lectures,readings, ﬁlms, and occasional, off-campus ﬁeld trips (by arrangement).This course is open to all except biology majors. Note: This course countsas a natural science core but does not satisfy requirements for thebiology major or minor.BI 0076 Environmental Science3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElective, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesThe science of the environment is presented through examination ofthe interconnections among physical, chemical, and biological ﬁelds ofinquiry. This course looks at how the global environment is altered by thehuman population, technology, and production of fuels and food. In thiscourse, students will acquire a scientiﬁc understanding of current issuesin environmental science and learn to evaluate claims about currentenvironmental problems. Note: This course counts as a natural sciencecore but does not satisfy requirements for the biology or chemistry majoror minor.
BI 0078 Introduction to Marine Science3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies ElectiveThis course introduces the non-science major and the marine scienceminor to the ﬁeld of oceanography. Topics dealing with the geological,physical, chemical, and biological aspects of science underscore theinterdisciplinary nature of world ocean study. Note: This course counts asa natural science core but does not satisfy requirements for the biologymajor or minor.BI 0095 Philosophy and Biology of Evolutionary Theory3 CreditsThis course explores the question of evolutionary theory from theperspectives of philosophy and biology. From the biological perspective,the course focuses on genetics, adaptive evolution, neutral evolution, thegenetic impact of selection on populations, the origin and maintenanceof genetic variation, the importance of development in evolution, andthe expression of variation. From the philosophical perspective, thecourse focuses on evolution as theory and ideology, the critique of theadaptationist program, evolution and contingency, typological versuspopulation thinking, and the developmental systems critique. Note:This course counts as a natural science core but does not satisfyrequirements for the biology major or minor.BI 0096 God and Modern Biology3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious StudiesThis course introduces students to the dialogue between science andreligion with a detailed consideration of recent advances in modernbiological research that raise signiﬁcant religious, theological, and ethicalissues. The course emphasizes developing a practical understandingof the scientiﬁc method through interactive experiences and lecturematerial. Students consider how scientiﬁc breakthroughs and ideas caninfluence or be influenced by religious thought through assigned readingsand in-class discussion groups and through the historically signiﬁcantand most recent ﬁndings in the areas of evolution, biotechnology, and theneurosciences. Note: This course counts as a natural science core butdoes not satisfy requirements for the biology major or minor.BI 0107 Human Anatomy and Physiology I4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0107L.This course is required for nursing majors as a prerequisite for mostnursing courses. A strong chemistry background is recommended.Homeostasis is the major theme of the course with form and functioncovered together each semester. This course introduces the student toanatomical terminology, homeostasis and feedback control, membranephysiology, and tissues followed by the integumentary, skeletal, muscularand nervous systems. Note: This course is not open to biology majorsexcept where required for allied health sciences (chair approval required).BI 0107L Human Anatomy and Physiology Lab I0 CreditsBI 0108 Human Anatomy and Physiology II4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0108L.Prerequisite: BI 0107.This course is required for nursing majors as a prerequisite for mostnursing courses. A strong chemistry background is recommended.Homeostasis is the major theme of the course with form and functioncovered together each semester. This course continues with theendocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, respiratory, urinary, digestive andreproductive systems. Laboratory work closely follows the lecture andincludes microscopic anatomy (histology), use of anatomical models,human skeletons and dissections for study of gross anatomy, andphysiology experiments including muscle recruitment measurements,cranial nerve tests, blood pressure measurements, blood typing, etc.Note: This course is not open to biology majors except where required forallied health sciences (chair approval required).BI 0108L Human Anatomy and Physiology Lab II0 CreditsBI 0151 Elements of Microbiology4 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisites: BI 0107, CH 0084.This microbiology course for nursing majors examines the structure andfunction of bacteria, viruses, yeasts, molds, antibiotics, and bacterialgenetics as well as the mechanisms of microbial invasion and the body'simmunological response. Note: This course is not open to biology majors.BI 0151L Elements of Microbiology Lab0 CreditsBI 0170 General Biology I4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisites: BI 0170L, BI 0170P.This introductory course for biology majors covers the molecularand cellular basis of life, including cell structure and function, cellcommunication, inheritance, gene expression and regulation, anddevelopmental genetics. Students receive hands-on experience with abroad range of topics and techniques in the accompanying laboratory.BI 0170L General Biology I Lab0 CreditsBI 0170P General Biology I PLG0 CreditsBI 0171 General Biology II4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisites: BI 0171L, BI 0171P.This introductory course for biology majors covers biochemistry, energyutilization, anatomy and physiology, and the structure and function ofplants and animals. Students receive hands-on experience with a broadrange of topics and techniques in the accompanying laboratory.BI 0171L General Biology II Lab0 CreditsBI 0171P General Biology II PLG0 CreditsBI 0172 General Biology III4 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0172L.This introductory course for biology majors covers organismal biologywith an emphasis on evolution, biological diversity, ecology, andenvironmental science. Students receive hands-on experience with abroad range of topics and techniques in the accompanying laboratory.BI 0172L General Biology III Lab0 Credits
BI 0201 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0202 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0203 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0204 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0205 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0206 Biology Teaching Practicum1 CreditPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172; successful completion of theassigned laboratory.This series of courses represents opportunities (up to six semesters) forBiology majors to gain experience in teaching practices in the laboratoryas classroom setting. Students will be paired with an instructor, andassist in instruction, grading and overall successful running of alaboratory section. Strong prior performance in the laboratory to whichthe student will be assigned is required. Selection will be made by thebiology department, after a general call is put out to all students who maybe interested in the opportunity. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0216 Introductory Principles of Epidemiology3 CreditsPrerequisite: BI 0108 or BI 0171.Epidemiology is the foundation for pubic health research, withapplications in several other disciplines. This course is designed tointroduce students to the core principles of epidemiology, and familiarizestudents with the applications of biostatistics in health research. Duringthe course, students will learn about the historical originations of theﬁeld of epidemiology, as well as concepts for study design and datainterpretation.BI 0218 Vertebrate Zoology3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElectivePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.Fish, frogs, flamingoes and ferrets. What unites them? A backbone. Thiscourse addresses how these very diverse groups of animals actuallyrelate and differ - in physiology, morphology and behavior. Students willdiscuss the advantages and disadvantages of being a member of eachgroup, and compare across groups the things that set these groups apartfrom each other. The course will consist of group discussions basedon the required reading in the text, supplemented extensively by directexamples (preserved and live specimens, tissues and samples) showinghow the diversity of vertebrates makes them an incredibly interestinggroup. Formerly BI 0318.BI 0218L Vertebrate Zoology Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisite: BI 0218 (concurrency allowed).This lab focuses on the development of a vertebrate research projectat the Connecticut's Beardsley Zoo, which currently houses over 130species of animals, a number of which are currently listed as endangered.As a participant in the Species Survival Plan (SSP) program, the zoo'smission is to promote the preservation of such endangered speciesas well as provide the best possible enclosures for many of the zoo'sother residents. You will be engaged in the design, execution, analysisand presentation of research, which will ultimately be used by theConnecticut's Beardsley Zoo to enhance their care and protection ofvertebrates. Formerly BI 0318L.BI 0251 Human Nutrition3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyPrerequisites: BI 0107 and BI 0108 or BI 0170, BI 0171, and BI 0172.This course offers a comprehensive study of the fundamental principlesof human nutrition. The course emphasizes the role diet plays in theprevention of disease and promotion of health. Students will integrate thefundamentals of digestion, absorption, and metabolism as they apply tonutrient intake. Major topics include: weight management as it relatesto the physiology, metabolism, and behavioral psychology of energybalance; the nutritional needs of humans at various stages of the lifecycle; how scientiﬁc evidence has shaped the current dietary guidelinesand the food environment.
BI 0260 Ecology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVNS Environmental Studies: Natural Science,EVPE Environmental Studies ElectiveFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0260L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0111, CH 0112.This course is designed as an overview of the science of ecology - thestudy of interactions between organisms and their environment. Thiscourse uses a hierarchical approach to describe organisms, populations,communities, and ecosystems. We discuss the types of questionsecologists ask, and the methods ecologists use to answer questions.BI 0260L Ecology Lab0 CreditsBI 0261 Genetics4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0261L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.This course offers a comprehensive study of the fundamental principlesof classical and molecular genetics. Major topics include transmission(Mendelian) genetics, gene linkage and mapping, fundamentals ofmolecular biology, molecular approaches to genetic analysis, geneticengineering and recombinant DNA technology, microbial genetics,regulation of gene expression, and genomics.BI 0261L Genetics Lab0 CreditsBI 0262 Human Physiology4 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0262L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0111, CH 0112.This course considers homeostasis in humans by means of acomprehensive survey of the morphology and physiology of human organsystems. Special emphasis is given to organ systems associated withwater and electrolyte balance, respiration, digestion, movement, andneurological control.BI 0262L Human Physiology Lab0 CreditsBI 0296 Special Topics in Biology3 CreditsThis course requires library research and the writing of a scholarly paperon a special topic. Students discuss topics with and must obtain consentfrom an appropriate professor prior to registration.BI 0310 Community Nutrition4 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and Technology, UDIV U.S.DiversityFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0310L.Prerequisites: BI 0107 and BI 0108 or BI 0170, BI 0171, and BI 0172.This course will introduce students to the fundamental applications ofnutrition in a public health setting. Students will learn the theory behindhealth behavior change, community assessment, intervention planning,and program management. Students will also have an opportunityto practice the skills necessary to carry out these activities throughlaboratory exercises, in-class activities and assignments. During thecourse, students will create a nutrition brochure, conduct a focus group,and produce a video Public Service Announcement. By the end of thiscourse, students will have a deeper understanding of how public healthprofessionals identify nutritional risk in the community, and designprograms to prevent the development of disease. This course satisﬁesCore II elective requirements for the Biology major or minor.BI 0310L Community Nutrition Lab0 CreditsBI 0314 Endocrinology3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0111, CH 0112, CH 0211.This course examines the glands of internal secretion and their location,anatomy, and function, including the mechanisms of their secretions andcell signaling importance in the regulation of body functions.BI 0315 Anatomy: Form and Function3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.This course examines the anatomy of animals emphasizing thefunctional and evolutionary diversity of vertebrates. The course willconsist of lectures focused on morphological variation and evolution,readings of the primary literature and anatomical dissections ofcomparative structures.BI 0317 Biostatistics for Health Research3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyCorequisite: BI 0317L.Prerequisites: BI 0108 or BI 0171; MA 0217.Biostatistics is the foundation for many forms of health researchwith applications in several other disciplines. This course is designedto introduce students to the core principles of statistical practicesused in the Public Health research setting, and familiarize studentswith the applications of biostatistics in health research. During thecourse, students will practice applied biostatistics by using a statisticalprogramming package (SAS) to complete data analysis of a public healthdataset.BI 0317L Biostatistics for Health Research Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeBI 0319 Zoology Field Experience3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElective, LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisite: BI 0218 or BI 0365.As a supplement to BI 0218 or BI 0365, students will take part in anexciting ﬁeld-trip experience to Brazil, where they will interact directlywith research biologists doing ﬁeld experiments in the Atlantic CoastalRainforest and surrounding ecosystems of Brazil. While in Brazil,students will work in the ﬁeld collecting data on a particular specializedtopic, and work closely with the Brazil research team in analyzing andpresenting these data in a scientiﬁcally appropriate format. Upon returnto Fairﬁeld, the semester will be spent perfecting techniques in dataorganization, analysis and presentation including a formal paper, posterand/or talk. Enrollment by permission only.BI 0319L Zoology Field Experience Lab3 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisite: BI 0218 or BI 0365.As a supplement to BI 0218 or BI 0365, students will take part in anexciting ﬁeld-trip experience to Brazil, where they will interact directlywith research biologists doing ﬁeld experiments in the Atlantic CoastalRainforest and surrounding ecosystems of Brazil. While in Brazil,students will work in the ﬁeld collecting data on a particular specializedtopic, and work closely with the Brazil research team in analyzing andpresenting these data in a scientiﬁcally appropriate format. Upon returnto Fairﬁeld, the semester will be spent perfecting techniques in dataorganization, analysis and presentation including a formal paper, posterand/or talk. Enrollment by permission only.
BI 0324 Biochemistry I3 CreditsPrerequisites: CH 0211, CH 0212.This course will investigate the fundamentals of life - chemistry. Thestructures and functions of biomolecules, including proteins, DNA, RNA,lipids, and carbohydrates will be covered in depth. The concepts behindbiological processes will be discussed, including enzyme kinetics andregulatory strategies, membrane functions, signal transduction, and anoverview of metabolism.BI 0324L Biochemistry Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0324 or BI 0325 or CH 0324 or CH 0325.This course will investigate classic and most current methodology usedin biochemistry. A semester project will be used to introduce techniquesused in biochemistry to investigate the structure and function of aprotein. In characterizing this protein, the analysis of DNA, lipids andcarbohydrates will also be covered.BI 0325 Biochemistry II3 CreditsPrerequisites: CH 0211, CH 0212.This course focuses on the regulation of metabolic pathways involvedin the synthesis, breakdown, and interconversion of biochemicalintermediates that are fundamental to all life. Basic principles ofbiological thermodynamics will be highlighted in order to understand theprocesses by which living cells obtain and utilize energy. Students willdevelop an understanding of basic biomedical principles in the contextof overall cell function. This course cannot be taken as a biology blockelective if BI 0330 has been taken previously.BI 0325L Biochemistry Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0324 or BI 0325 or CH 0324 or CH 0325.This course will investigate classic and most current methodology usedin biochemistry. A semester project will be used to introduce techniquesused in biochemistry to investigate the structure and function of aprotein. In characterizing this protein, the analysis of DNA, lipids andcarbohydrates will also be covered.BI 0327 Cell Biology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0327L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0211, CH 0212.This course focuses on the structure and function of eukaryotic cells.Students explore the relationship between gene expression and proteinsynthesis, and discuss how different proteins coordinate a complexarray of important biological tasks in the cell. The course covers thebiochemical interactions that occur within and between cells that sustainviability and mediate cell communication. Topics include gene expressionand protein production, enzyme structure/function, protein to proteininteractions, cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix, mechanisms oftransport, signal transduction, cell cycle, and apoptosis. Laboratoriesinclude analysis of cell morphology, RNA and protein expression, andassays to study the growth, differentiation, and death of eukaryotic cellsin response to their environment.BI 0327L Cell Biology Lab0 CreditsBI 0330 Nutrient Metabolism3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0111, CH 0112, CH 0211,CH 0212.This course is designed to provide students with an in-depthunderstanding of nutrient metabolism in humans. This course willexamine the digestion, absorption, and metabolism of macronutrients:carbohydrate, lipid and protein, in addition to the essential biologicalfunctions of vitamins and minerals. The emphasis of this course will beon the interrelationship and control of nutrient utilization by various organsystems in the body, building upon principles of human physiology andbiochemistry. This course cannot be taken as a biology block elective ifBI 0325 lecture has been taken previously.BI 0342 Developmental Biology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0342L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.This course explores how the transition from a single-celled, fertilizedegg to a multicellular animal is accomplished, emphasizing thedynamic interactions that occur on the molecular level to tightly controldevelopmental processes. Topics include mechanisms of cell fate anddifferentiation, the molecular basis of differential gene expression,analysis of the molecular cues regulating body axis formation, and thedevelopment of various speciﬁc structures in different experimentalorganisms. The laboratory for the course consists of experiments thatfocus on the influence of gene function on development. We will doexperiments that allow us to observe expression patterns of importantgenes in development and we will study the effects of perturbing genefunction during development.BI 0342L Developmental Biology Lab0 CreditsBI 0352 Fundamentals of Microbiology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0352L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, BI 0261, CH 0211, CH 0212.This comprehensive introduction to microbiology includes microbial cellstructure, physiology, genetics, evolution and taxonomy, diversity, ecology,and applied microbiology. Lab sessions introduce microbiologicaltechniques (aseptic technique, microscopy, bacterial staining, culturetechniques), and other research methods. Students use skills acquired inthe lab to design and conduct independent investigations.BI 0352L Fundamentals of Microbiology Lab0 CreditsBI 0354 Molecular Biology3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, CH 0211, CH 0212.This introduction to molecular biology examines protein structure,DNA structure, RNA structure, the roles of DNA and RNA in proteinsynthesis, and the replication and repair of DNA and RNA in eukaryoticand prokaryotic cells. Relates the effects of mutations to DNA, RNA, andproteins.BI 0356 Immunology3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, CH 0211, CH 0212.This introduction to immunology covers the humoral and cellular basisof immune response, emphasizing antigens, the structure and functionof immunoglobulins, antibody formation, and living/experimentalmanifestations of the immune response.
BI 0357 General Virology3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171.This introductory course covers the entire ﬁeld of virology, with aspecial emphasis on animal viruses. Coverage centers on the physical,biochemical, and biological aspects of each bacterial and animal virusclass. Discussion stresses viral morphology; replication and assembly;pathogenesis of viral infections; and the epidemiology, prevention, andcontrol of viral diseases.BI 0362 Marine Invertebrate Zoology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0362L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.Students study the phylogeny, ecology, morphology, and physiology ofthe major marine invertebrate groups with emphasis on local fauna. Thelaboratory component includes ﬁeld trips to various habitats in LongIsland Sound to collect specimens for identiﬁcation and study.BI 0362L Marine Invertebrate Zoology Lab0 CreditsBI 0364 Freshwater Ecology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVNS Environmental Studies: Natural Science,EVPE Environmental Studies ElectiveFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0364L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.Students learn the applied and theoretical concepts of the ﬁeld ofecology using examples from freshwater aquatic systems. In thelaboratory, students learn the major groups of organisms present inaquatic systems and conduct experiments involving ecological conceptssuch as predation and competition.BI 0364L Freshwater Ecology Lab0 CreditsBI 0365 Evolutionary Biology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0365L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.The course begins with an examination of the intellectual origins ofbiological thought and includes a study of the historical factors thatcontributed to Charles Darwin's development of the theory of evolution.Topics include the evidence for evolution, the forces affecting evolution(e.g., mutation, migration, genetic drift, and selection), and naturalselection as the basis of adaptation, as well as the philosophical andpractical aspects of deﬁning species and reconstructing phylogeneticrelationships. Students critique (individually and in groups) currentpapers in evolutionary biology on topics such as punctuated equilibriumtheory, Darwinian medicine, human origins, co-evolutionary arms races,systematics and biodiversity, and the evolution of sex.BI 0365L Evolutionary Biology Lab0 CreditsBI 0366 Ornithology4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVNS Environmental Studies: Natural Science,EVPE Environmental Studies ElectiveFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0366L.Prerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172.This upper-level lecture, laboratory, and ﬁeld course on avian biology hasan emphasis on ecology and evolution. The course familiarizes studentswith the staggering diversity of birds and the adaptations that havecontributed to their success. Laboratory activities include: 1) a multi-week student investigation of avian diversity of form and function, and 2)a series of ﬁeld trips that emphasize unique adaptations and means ofidentiﬁcation of birds found in Connecticut.BI 0366L Ornithology Lab0 CreditsBI 0372 Environmental Toxicology4 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies ElectiveFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0372L.Environmental toxicology is the study of the nature, properties, effectsand detection of toxic substances in the environment and in anyenvironmentally exposed species, including humans. Fundamentaltoxicological concepts will be covered including dose-responserelationships, absorption of toxicants, distribution and storage oftoxicants, biotransformation and elimination of toxicants, targetorgan toxicity, teratogenesis, mutagenesis, carcinogenesis, and riskassessment. The course will include an overview of chemodynamicsof contaminants in the environment including fate and transport. Theeffects of these contaminants will then be explored on a series ofscales: the molecular level (biochemical pathways of metabolism anddetoxiﬁcation); the organismal level (target organs, behavioral effects);and the ecosystem level (nutrient cycling and ecosystem services).BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0211, CH 0212.BI 0372L Environmental Toxicology Lab0 CreditsBI 0391 Biology Research I1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.BI 0392 Biology Research II1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.
BI 0393 Biology Research III1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.BI 0394 Biology Research IV1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.BI 0395 Biology Research V1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.BI 0396 Biology Research VI1-3 CreditsThis course requires a research thesis involving laboratory investigation.Seniors and qualiﬁed juniors obtain the consent of the professorsupervising their research interest area prior to registering for thisprogram. Past topics include aquatic ecology, bacterial ecology andphysiology, biochemistry, cell-wall biosynthesis, evolution of marineinvertebrates, genetic regulation of animal development, mammalianphysiology, plant biostimulants, plant/insect ecology, population anddisease dynamics of shellﬁsh, and signal transduction/gene regulations.BI 0397 Internship1-3 CreditsAvailable for junior and senior biology majors in good academic standing.Internships are available, subject to individual arrangement, for studentsinterested in allied health, environmental science, marine science,medicine, dentistry, biotechnology, and emergency medicine. Studentsprovide their own transportation and must discuss their internships withthe department chair and obtain consent of the supervising professorprior to registering for this course.BI 0398 Internship1-3 CreditsAvailable for junior and senior biology majors in good academic standing.Internships are available, subject to individual arrangement, for studentsinterested in allied health, environmental science, marine science,medicine, dentistry, biotechnology, and emergency medicine. Studentsprovide their own transportation and must discuss their internships withthe department chair and obtain consent of the supervising professorprior to registering for this course.BI 0399 Capstone Seminar (Shell)3 CreditsDuring the capstone experience, students connect the diverse experienceand knowledge they have acquired as biology majors, focusing theseskills on examining in depth, a speciﬁc topic. In a small class setting(10-12 students maximum), students and the professor delve deeplyinto the chosen topic, assessing the peer-reviewed literature and mostcurrent trends around the particular subject. Students bring their breadthof knowledge to the discussion, and apply what they have learned overthe course of their academic training to critically analyze the argumentsand experiments presented in the literature. In most cases, students willbe responsible for presenting a paper to the class, driving the contentof discussion and debate with their fellow students and instructor. Thecapstone is a reading extensive experience, and, by deﬁnition, showsthat the biology major is able to synthesize and apply their knowledge toexamine interesting questions. To maximize the value of the capstoneexperience, students enroll in an upper-level seminar course duringtheir senior year. See BI 0399A, BI 0399B, BI 0399C, BI 0399D, BI 0399E,BI 0399F, BI 0399G, BI 0399H, BI 0399I, BI 0399J, BI 0399K.BI 0399A Senior Capstone Seminar: Biology of Cancer3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the MolecularBlock, senior standing.This seminar requires students to draw on nearly all of their training asbiology majors to understand the disease of cancer in great detail. Topicsinclude the genetic/cellular basis for the disease, physiological effects oftumor progression and metastasis, environmental influences, treatmentmodalities, and the personal, familial and societal impacts of the disease.Students read extensively for the course and summarize and formallypresent current research in the ﬁeld in an effort to develop their scientiﬁccommunication skills. Numerous short reviews of research articles arealso produced by students. Formerly BI 0381A.BI 0399B Senior Capstone Seminar: Molecular Mechanisms of HumanDisease3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the MolecularBlock, senior standing.This seminar covers the molecular and cellular events that underliecomplex human diseases. Students learn to critically analyze andinterpret primary literature on the molecular aspects of such diseasesas cancer, diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer's, and AIDS. Studentssummarize and present selected articles at each meeting and use theseacquired skills to investigate a particular topic of their choice in the formof a grant proposal for their ﬁnal project. Formerly BI 0381B.BI 0399C Senior Capstone Seminar: Bacterial Pathogenesis3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the MolecularBlock, senior standing.This seminar examines the role of prokaryotes in disease, with anemphasis on the genetics and physiology of disease mechanisms.Topics include aspects of the human immune response, host-parasiterelationships, and the epidemiology and evolution of infectious disease.Formerly BI 0381C.
BI 0399D Senior Capstone Seminar: Nutritional Epigenetics3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the Molecular orPhysiology Block, senior standing.This seminar will cover emerging topics in nutritional epigenetics - themechanisms by which nutrients regulate gene expression. Emphasiswill be placed on genes regulated by essential dietary compounds(e.g. carbohydrates, lipids, vitamins and minerals) within the contextof conditions such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer.Students will analyze and present scientiﬁc literature and write a grantproposal. Formerly BI 0381D.BI 0399E Senior Capstone Seminar: Reproductive Tactics3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the PhysiologyBlock, senior standing.This seminar explores the ways animals have evolved creativemechanisms, physiological and behavioral, to maximize theirreproductive success. Topics will include mate choice and sexual conflict,paternity, variability in reproductive anatomy, mechanisms for successfulfertilization, sperm competition and sperm choice. Course format: Areading extensive course. Students will read from a source text forfoundation ideas, then will each ﬁnd and present to the entire class,scientiﬁc research papers from the primary literature. Formerly BI 0382A.BI 0399F Senior Capstone Seminar: Coral Reef Ecology3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the EcologyBlock, senior standing.Students study the complex ecological relationships found in coral reefecosystems. Topics include discussions of reef development, coralsymbiosis and growth, reef trophic dynamics, ecology and behaviorof coral reef ﬁsh and invertebrates, and effects of natural and humandisturbance on coral reef communities. Course format: seminar in whichstudents read, analyze, and present scientiﬁc research papers from theprimary literature. Formerly BI 0383A.BI 0399G Senior Capstone Seminar: Ecology of the North AtlanticCoast3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the EcologyBlock, senior standing.This seminar examines the processes that generate ecological patternsin North Atlantic coastal ecosystems with a focus on the ecology of saltmarshes, tidal rivers, sandy beaches, and rocky shores, and the humanimpact on these systems. The course centers on student-led discussionsof readings from scientiﬁc literature. Formerly BI 0383B.BI 0399H Senior Capstone Seminar: Principles of Aquaculture3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the EcologyBlock, senior standing.This seminar introduces students to the rapidly-growing science ofaquaculture or ﬁsh farming. Using a comprehensive approach, the courseincludes discussions of the following topics: historical development,culture and rearing techniques, diseases, regulations, and permittingand marketing of aquatic plants and animals. Course format: seminar inwhich students read, analyze, and present scientiﬁc and technical papersfrom the primary literature. Field trips to nearby aquaculture facilities maybe included. Formerly BI 0383C.BI 0399I Senior Capstone Seminar: Topics in EvolutionaryBiology3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the EcologyBlock, senior standing.Evolution is the theme that unites all ﬁelds of biology. The broad objectiveof this course is to encourage students to integrate all the knowledgethey have acquired as a biology major to critically interpret and analyzequestions from an evolutionary perspective. In this seminar, we will readand discuss the current literature on major evolutionary topics, whichhave revolutionized the way in which we think about genomics, sex andreproduction, and our own human beginnings. We will also addressimportant contemporary but controversial topics such as evolutionarymedicine and evolutionary psychology. The course centers on student leddiscussions, presentations and literature critiques. Formerly BI 0383D.BI 0399J Senior Capstone Seminar: Pathophysiology of Bone andCartilage3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the PhysiologyBlock, senior standing.This seminar will focus on the biochemistry and physiology of humanbone and cartilage. Emphasis will be placed on the normal developmentand healing of these tissues along with an introduction to commonskeletal tissue disorders such as osteoporosis and arthritis. Students willbe expected to analyze and present scientiﬁc literature while integratingthe material with basic knowledge acquired from previous courses.BI 0399K Senior Capstone Seminar: Ichthyology3 CreditsAttributes: BICP Biology Major Capstone CoursePrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, one course from the PhysiologyBlock, senior standing.This seminar will explore the diversity of ﬁshes, the largest group ofvertebrates. Topics for discussion will include feeding, locomotion,metabolism, and sensory systems of ﬁshes. Students will analyze andpresent scientiﬁc literature and write a grant proposal.Black Studies (BL)BL 0101 Black Lives Matter3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, BSFC Black Studies FocusCourse, BSSS Black Studies: Social and Behavioral Sciences, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityIn the context of Ferguson, Charleston, and other national crises, thiscourse responds to the call of students from our campus community toraise questions about and critically reflect upon the failures of democracyto recognize the value of Black Life. This course employs collectivethinking, teaching, and research to focus on questions surroundingrace, structural inequality, and violence. It examines the historical,geographical, cultural, social, and political ways in which race has beenconﬁgured and deployed in the United States. Various faculty will bring tobear their respective scholarly lenses so that students understand raceand racism across intellectual disciplines.BL 0398 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: BSCP Black Studies Capstone CourseUpon request and by agreement with a professor in the program, a BlackStudies minor may conduct a one-semester independent study on adeﬁned research topic or ﬁeld of study.
Business (BU)BU 0211 Legal Environment of Business3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course examines the broad philosophical as well as practical natureand function of the legal system, and introduces students to the legal andsocial responsibilities of business. The course includes an introductionto the legal system, the federal courts, Constitutional law, the UnitedStates Supreme Court, the civil process, and regulatory areas such asemployment discrimination, protection of the environment, and corporategovernance and securities markets.BU 0220 Environmental Law and Policy3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, EVSS Environmental Studies: SocialScience, MGEL Management: General ElectiveThis course surveys issues arising out of federal laws designedto protect the environment and manage resources. It considersin detail the role of the Environmental Protection Agency in theenforcement of environmental policies arising out of such laws asthe National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Water Act, and theClear Air Act, among others. The course also considers the impactof Congress, political parties, bureaucracy, and interest groups inshaping environmental policy, giving special attention to the impact ofenvironmental regulation on business and private property rights.BU 0311 The Law of Contracts, Sales, and Property3 CreditsPrerequisite: BU 0211.This course examines the components of common law contractsincluding the concepts of offer and acceptance, consideration, capacityand legality, assignment of rights and delegation of duties, as wellas discharge of contracts. The course covers Articles 2 and 2A ofthe Uniform Commercial Code relating to leases, sales of goods, andwarranties. The course also considers personal and real property, andbailments.BU 0312 The Law of Business Organizations and FinancialTransactions3 CreditsPrerequisite: BU 0211.This course offers an analysis of legal principles related to the law ofagency, sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, limited liabilitycompanies, and other business forms. The second half of the courseaddresses several sections of the Uniform Commercial Code, such asnegotiable instruments, bank collections and deposits and securedtransactions. Finally, the course examines the law of suretyship, debtor-creditor relationships, and bankruptcy.BU 0320 Employment Law and Discrimination in the Workplace3 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General Elective, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course examines a variety of legal issues related to the workplaceincluding the doctrine of employment at will, employee privacy, andthe history and development of labor unions and the legal protectionsafforded by the National Labor Relations Act. A study of the role ofthe Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Employment OpportunityCommission in eradicating discrimination based on race, sex, religion,national origin, age, and disability occupies a major portion of the course.Other employment issues include afﬁrmative action, worker safety, andcompensation.BU 0391 Seminar in Business Law and Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisites: AE 0291, BU 0211, two additional courses in law or appliedethics.This interdisciplinary study of these two aspects of the businessenvironment is cross-listed as AE 0391. Topics focus on the interactionof law and ethics, and the regulatory public policy issues in such areasas multiculturalism, work and family, the environment, product safety,international business, and advertising. This course is the capstoneexperience for students earning a minor in business law and ethics.Business (Non-Credit) (BB)BB 0115 SHRM Learning Systems0 CreditsThis SHRM-CP™ and SHRM-SCP™ certiﬁcation preparation course isdesigned primarily for individuals seeking credentials that focus onidentifying and testing the knowledge and practical real-life experiencesHR professionals around the world need to excel in their careers today.This certiﬁcation preparation program covers four knowledge domains:people, organization, workplace, and strategy, as well as eight behavioralcompetencies. This intensive 12-week program combines expertinstruction with the 2017 SHRM Learning System®, so students will learnfaster, retain more knowledge, and stay on track as they prepare for theexam.BB 0121 SHRM Essentials of Human Resource Management0 CreditsThis two-day certiﬁcate program covers introductory HR topics in acondensed, easy-to-understand format. The straightforward formatensures that HR concepts can be mastered and applied to real-lifesituations. Students will beneﬁt from the shared experiences ofinstructors and peers, while learning techniques for handling HRchallenges through interactive case studies designed to make studentsfeel comfortable dealing with HR issues.BB 0123 Strategic Management0 CreditsThis two-day seminar course with a SHRM-certiﬁed instructor will: coverHR Strategic Management and how it is related to organizational goals;describe how legal, political, cultural, and economic factors affect HRmanagement efforts; deﬁne HR planning and outline the HR planningprocess; evaluate the impact of legislation (federal, state, and local) onthe organization's goals; identify HR metrics and their applicability tostrategy; and understand the role of social media in the HR managementand planning process.BB 0130 Fundamentals and Principles of Personal FinancialPlanning0 CreditsThis foundation course provides an overview of the personal ﬁnancialplanning with an emphasis on the six-step ﬁnancial planning process andclient risk management.BB 0132 Insurance Planning and Risk Management0 CreditsThis course develops a methodology for identifying insurance risks,making recommendations, and managing ongoing risks as a way tolessen the impact of an unplanned event. Also covered: life, health,liability, and business planning.BB 0134 Investment Planning0 CreditsThis course explores investment alternatives ranging from guaranteedand ﬁxed income products to derivatives and private placements, usingrisk-return criteria to analyze each.
BB 0136 Federal Income and Property Taxation0 CreditsCovers methods and concepts of federal income taxation for individuals,including real estate transactions. Topics include: income taxfundamentals; ethical considerations; tax accounting methods; taxationof trusts; cost-recovery methods; tax consequences of like-kindexchanges.BB 0138 Retirement Planning and Employer-Sponsored Beneﬁts0 CreditsIncludes assumptions and projections of lifestyle, inflation, returns, andlife expectancy; cash flow; income sources; medical expenses; employer-sponsored beneﬁts; stock options; stock purchase plans; cafeteria plans;and life and disability insurance.BB 0139 CFP Capstone Course0 CreditsPrerequisites: BB 0130, BB 0132, BB 0134, BB 0136, BB 0138, BB 0140.This course will engage the student in critical thinking and decision-making about personal ﬁnancial management topics in the context ofthe ﬁnancial planning process. You will gain the hands-on experience oftaking a client from start to ﬁnish with their personal ﬁnancial plan.BB 0140 Estate Planning0 CreditsTopics, discussed from the perspective of the descendants, ﬁduciaries,estates, trust beneﬁciaries, donors, and donees, include: incapacityplanning; satisfying liquidity needs; qualiﬁed interest trusts; charitablegiving considerations and trusts; generation skipping; valuation issues;and estate planning and weakness.Chemistry (CH)CH 0007 Introduction to Forensic Science3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateThis course provides an introduction to the scientiﬁc techniques usedfor the analysis of common types of physical evidence encountered atcrime scenes. Using critical thinking and laboratory experiences, studentsbecome crime scene investigators. They are charged with the task ofsolving a mock crime. The investigations include fabric analysis, inkanalysis, blood analysis, DNA analysis, ﬁngerprint analysis, ballistics,and/or blood alcohol analysis. The lecture part of the course focuseson exploring the underlying chemical principles behind the techniquesand includes discussion of historical case studies. Note: This coursecounts as a science core course but does not satisfy requirements for thechemistry major or minor.CH 0010 Chemistry: Sights and Insights3 CreditsThis course, which fulﬁlls a science requirement and has no prerequisites,presents chemistry via lecture, demonstration, and laboratory work. Thecourse provides students with insights into the microscopic world ofatoms and molecules to better understand the macroscopic, observableproperties of real substances, and applies the models developed in thecourse to representative substances from inorganic, organic chemistry,and biochemistry. Note: This course counts as a science core course butdoes not satisfy requirements for the chemistry major or minor.CH 0033 Chemistry of Nutrition3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, HSST Health Studies:Science and TechnologyThis course introduces basic chemical concepts, such as the atom,molecules, chemical reactivity and energy, as well as integratingfundamental biological concepts including cell structure and basicanatomy. Further explored, on a chemical level, are the structure andfunction of basic nutritional components: proteins, carbohydrate, lipids,vitamins, and minerals. With a scientiﬁc foundation established, topicspertaining to nutrition and human evolution, the life cycle, and exercisewill be discussed. Current social and health issues such as obesity, foodtechnology, and fad dieting will be incorporated throughout the course.Note: This course counts as a science core course but does not satisfyrequirements for the chemistry major or minor.CH 0072 Philosophy and Biochemistry of Food and EatingPractices3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.An essential component of our daily lives, food offers itself as oneof the most interesting topics of cultural and scientiﬁc discussion.This course is designed to analyze food and eating practices from thetwofold perspective of philosophy and biochemistry. The intersections ofphilosophy and biochemistry will be highlighted in topics such as "Foodas Art" (juxtaposing the aesthetic and biomolecular properties of food)and "Food in Culture" (contrasting how societies prepare and eat foodwith the nutrition and technology of food science). The course combineslecture with activities such as trips to museums, guest lectures, and in-class laboratory activities. Note: Students may take either CH 0033 orCH 0072 as a core science requirement, but not both.CH 0076 Environmental Science3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElectiveThe science of the environment is presented through examination ofthe interconnections among physical, chemical, and biological ﬁelds ofinquiry. This course looks at how the global environment is altered by thehuman population, technology, and production of fuels and food. In thiscourse, students will acquire a scientiﬁc understanding of current issuesin environmental science and learn to evaluate claims about currentenvironmental problems.CH 0083 Survey of Chemistry3 CreditsThis one-semester course presumes no previous chemistry and fulﬁlls ascience requirement. The course consists of an introduction to atomicand molecular structure and the correlation of structural models toobservable phenomena. The course discusses topics of historical andcurrent relevance to society, including environmental issues, energysources, natural products, and the application of chemistry in industryand medicine. Note: This course counts as a science core course butdoes not satisfy requirements for the chemistry major or minor.CH 0084 General Chemistry for Health Science3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, HSST Health Studies:Science and TechnologyCorequisite: CH 0084L.This course introduces the general principles of chemistry (matter andmeasurement, atomic and molecular structure, energetics, acids andbases, oxidation, and reduction) in a manner that prepares studentsto relate to properties of organic materials and biologically relevantsubstances such as carbohydrates, lipids, peptides, proteins, and nucleicacids. The course focuses on general principles and introduces organicand biologically relevant substances. This course is directed to School ofNursing students and students in the Health Studies minor.
CH 0084L General Chemistry for Health Science Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0084.This lab illustrates lecture concepts of CH 0084 and allows students toobserve relevant physical systems.CH 0085 Chemistry, Energy, and the Environment3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVNS Environmental Studies: Natural Science,EVPE Environmental Studies ElectiveThis course explores the flow of energy in modern society from theperspective of chemistry. Topics include the fossil fuels coal, petroleum,and natural gas, followed by an exploration of alternatives, includingbiomass, hydro, solar, tidal, wind, and nuclear energy sources. Studentsconsider the source of energy, how it is harvested, and the short- andlong-term environmental consequences of using each energy source andhow these consequences are determined. The course uses the conceptsof bonding, thermodynamics, kinetics, and work to investigate these andrelated ideas. The course also discusses economic and political forcesthat shape our use of energy. Note: This course counts as a science corecourse but does not satisfy requirements for the chemistry major orminor.CH 0086 Chemistry and Art3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateThis basic chemistry course with a strong orientation to the visualarts fulﬁlls a core science requirement. Basic concepts include atoms,molecules, elements, compounds, the periodic table, chemical bondingand reaction, acids and bases, oxidation and reduction, and polymers.The lab employs these concepts to examine aspects of art media such aslight, color, dyes, paint, metals, stone, ceramics, glass, plastics, paper, andﬁbers. Note: This course counts as a science core course but does notsatisfy requirements for the chemistry major or minor.CH 0087 Molecules of Life3 CreditsThis course explores the modern science of biologically relevantcompounds and substances, which exist at the intersection of chemistry,biology, and medicine. We examine the major molecular componentsof the cell - proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, and more - and illustrate theapplication of chemical principles to understanding their structure andfunction. Since our lives are increasingly influenced by the availability ofnew pharmaceutical agents ranging from drugs that lower cholesterol tothose that influence behavior, we develop insights needed to understanddrug action and consider the design of new ways to intercede in thedisease process. Note: This course counts as a science core course butdoes not satisfy requirements for the chemistry major or minor.CH 0111 General Chemistry I3 CreditsCorequisite: CH 0111L.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, covers atomic andmolecular weights, the mole concept, Avogadro's number, stoichiometry,energy relationships in chemical systems, the properties of gases,the electronic structures of atoms, periodic relationships among theelements, chemical bonding, geometrics of molecules, molecularorbitals, liquids, solids, intermolecular forces, solutions, rates of chemicalreactions, chemical equilibrium, free energy, entropy, acids and bases,aqueous equilibria, electrochemistry, nuclear chemistry, chemistry ofsome metals and nonmetals, and chemistry of coordination compounds.CH 0111L General Chemistry I Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0111.This lab offers the opportunity to explore and experience the rigors of anexperimental physical science. Students make and record observationson simple chemical systems while learning fundamental laboratorymanipulative and measurement skills. Experiments demonstrateand supplement concepts introduced in lecture. The ﬁrst semesteremphasizes weighing, ﬁltering, titrating, using volumetric glassware,observing data, and recording and synthetic techniques. The secondsemester integrates these techniques in experimental proceduresand explores physical properties and quantitative analysis of selectedchemical systems.CH 0112 General Chemistry II3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyCorequisite: CH 0112L.Prerequisite: CH 0111.This course, the second in a two-semester sequence, covers atomic andmolecular weights, the mole concept, Avogadro's number, stoichiometry,energy relationships in chemical systems, the properties of gases,the electronic structures of atoms, periodic relationships among theelements, chemical bonding, geometrics of molecules, molecularorbitals, liquids, solids, intermolecular forces, solutions, rates of chemicalreactions, chemical equilibrium, free energy, entropy, acids and bases,aqueous equilibria, electrochemistry, nuclear chemistry, chemistry ofsome metals and nonmetals, and chemistry of coordination compounds.CH 0112L General Chemistry II Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0112.This lab offers the opportunity to explore and experience the rigors of anexperimental physical science. Students make and record observationson simple chemical systems while learning fundamental laboratorymanipulative and measurement skills. Experiments demonstrateand supplement concepts introduced in lecture. The ﬁrst semesteremphasizes weighing, ﬁltering, titrating, using volumetric glassware,observing data, and recording and synthetic techniques. The secondsemester integrates these techniques in experimental proceduresand explores physical properties and quantitative analysis of selectedchemical systems.CH 0211 Organic Chemistry I3 CreditsCorequisite: CH 0211L.Prerequisite: CH 0112.This course, an introduction to the chemistry of carbon compounds,discusses common functional groups from the perspective of molecularstructure. Areas of emphasis include structure and characterization,preparation or organic synthesis, and the relations of physical andchemical properties to molecular structure. Stereochemical conceptsintroduced early in the course are used throughout.CH 0211L Organic Chemistry I Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0211.This lab emphasizes the manipulative techniques of separation,puriﬁcation, analysis, and simple syntheses.
CH 0212 Organic Chemistry II3 CreditsCorequisite: CH 0212L.Prerequisite: CH 0211.This course is a continuation of CH 0211 and presents the chemistry ofaromatic, carbonyl, acyl, and nitrogen compounds. The course relatesthe chemical properties of naturally occurring substances such ascarbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids to those of simplermonofunctional compounds. Spectroscopic methods of structuredetermination are introduced early in the course and used throughout.CH 0212L Organic Chemistry II Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0212.This lab emphasizes investigative experiments, more complex synthesis,and qualitative organic analysis.CH 0222 Chemical Analysis3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major ElectiveCorequisite: CH 0222L.Prerequisite: CH 0112.This course provides the theoretical basis for the required laboratory.Topics include statistics, chemical equilibria and their analyticalapplications (acid-base, oxidation-reduction, complex formation,precipitation), electroanalytical chemistry, spectroanalytical chemistry,and chemical separations.CH 0222L Chemical Analysis Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0222.Students explore quantitative aspects of chemistry through the analysisof unknowns and the characterization of chemical equilibrium, andpursue classical and instrumental methods of analysis.CH 0261 Physical Chemistry I3 CreditsCorequisite: CH 0261L.Prerequisites: CH 0112, MA 0146 or higher, PS 0116.This course is the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, coveringthermodynamics of gasses, pure liquids, and both electrolyte and non-electrolyte solutions. Additional topics include chemical equilibrium,transport phenomena, reaction kinetics, quantum mechanics,spectroscopy, and statistical mechanics and statistical thermodynamics.CH 0261L Physical Chemistry I Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0261.This course demonstrates and veriﬁes concepts covered in lecturecourses CH 0261. Each lab meets weekly for three hours, duringwhich students perform experiments with precision and care. Thecourse incorporates current technology into each experiment and usescomputers in data acquisition, reduction, and reporting. The courseplaces special emphasis on data handling techniques and the accuraterecording of observations.CH 0262 Physical Chemistry II3 CreditsCorequisite: CH 0262L.Prerequisite: CH 0261.This course is the second of a two-semester sequence, coveringthermodynamics of gasses, pure liquids, and both electrolyte and non-electrolyte solutions. Additional topics include chemical equilibrium,transport phenomena, reaction kinetics, quantum mechanics,spectroscopy, and statistical mechanics, and statistical thermodynamics.CH 0262L Physical Chemistry II Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0262.This course demonstrates and veriﬁes concepts covered in the lecturecourse CH 0262. Each lab meets weekly for three hours, during whichstudents perform experiments with precision and care. The courseincorporates current technology into each experiment and usescomputers in data acquisition, reduction, and reporting. The courseplaces special emphasis on data handling techniques and the accuraterecording of observations.CH 0324 Biochemistry I3 CreditsPrerequisite: CH 0212.This course will investigate the fundamentals of life - chemistry. Thestructures and functions of biomolecules, including proteins, DNA, RNA,lipids, and carbohydrates will be covered in depth. The concepts behindbiological processes will be discussed, including enzyme kinetics andregulatory strategies, membrane functions, signal transduction, and anoverview of metabolism.CH 0324L Biochemistry Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0324 or BI 0325 or CH 0324 or CH 0325.This course will investigate classic and most current methodology usedin biochemistry. A semester project will be used to introduce techniquesused in biochemistry to investigate the structure and function of aprotein. In characterizing this protein, the analysis of DNA, lipids andcarbohydrates will also be covered.CH 0325 Biochemistry II3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0170, BI 0171, BI 0172, CH 0211, CH 0212.This course focuses on the regulation of metabolic pathways involvedin the synthesis, breakdown, and interconversion of biochemicalintermediates that are fundamental to all life. Basic principles ofbiological thermodynamics will be highlighted in order to understand theprocesses by which living cells obtain and utilize energy. Students willdevelop an understanding of basic biomedical principles in the context ofoverall cell function. Formerly BI 0326.CH 0325L Biochemistry Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: BI 0324 or BI 0325 or CH 0324 or CH 0325.This course will investigate classic and most current methodology usedin biochemistry. A semester project will be used to introduce techniquesused in biochemistry to investigate the structure and function of aprotein. In characterizing this protein, the analysis of DNA, lipids andcarbohydrates will also be covered.CH 0326 Chemical Instrumentation3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major ElectivePrerequisite: CH 0222.Students study chemical analysis in detail, using moderninstrumentation. Students explore current methods of analysis, theoryof transduction, implementation of instrumental principles, and physicaltheory of chemical systems in the context of the goals of the analyticalproblem and consider examples of applications.
CH 0326L Instrumental-Analytical Chemistry Lab3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major ElectiveFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisites: CH 0222, CH 0326.This course exposes students who have already been introduced to thetheory of classical (CH 0222) and instrumental (CH 0326) methods ofanalysis to problem solving using a variety of physical and chemicalmethods. The early portion of this course consolidates the classroomprinciples of analytical chemistry into a holistic understanding ofanalytical chemistry, giving students a further appreciation of the generalconsiderations made when designing an approach to problem solving inanalysis. Students receive hands-on exposure to the following aspectsof analytical chemistry: basic electronics as appropriate to commoninstrumentation, methodology involved in equipment maintenance andtroubleshooting, exposure to solving real-world analytical problems, anduse of small computers and interfaces in the lab. The course emphasizesoral communication of results among all lab participants.CH 0341 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry3 CreditsCorequisites: CH 0261, CH 0341L.This course introduces students to the interdependence of chemicalbonding, spectroscopic characteristics, and reactivity properties ofcoordination compounds and complexes using the fundamental conceptof symmetry. The principles of coordination chemistry will be introducedafter reviewing atomic structure, the chemical bond, and molecularstructure. A basic familiarity with symmetry will be formalized byan introduction to the elements of symmetry and group theory. Thestudents will use symmetry and group theory approaches to understandcentral atom hybridization, ligand group orbitals, and the constructionof qualitative molecular orbital (MO) energy diagrams including bothsigma and pi bonding contributions. The students will continue to utilizetheir understanding of group theory during an introduction of electronicspectroscopy and the use of correlation and Tanabe-Sugano diagrams.MO diagrams will then be used as a starting point for understanding thereactivity properties of coordination complexes.CH 0341L Advanced Inorganic Chemistry Lab2 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: CH 0341.This lab is a synthetic inorganic lab with an emphasis placed oncharacterization. In the laboratory, students will have the opportunityto synthesize, characterize, and investigate the physical and reactiveproperties of coordination, organometallic, and air-sensitive complexes.Students will utilize the following instrumental methods to characterizetheir compounds: UV-Visible spectroscopy, magnetic susceptibility,polarimetry, infrared spectroscopy, and NMR spectroscopy. Studentswrite formal laboratory reports for every experiment.CH 0363 Advanced Topics1-3 CreditsThis course, intended for second semester senior chemistry majors,offers a detailed, advanced treatment of topics from any of the majorﬁelds of chemistry, tailoring topics in a given semester to meet the needsand interests of enrolled students. Professors vary based on chosentopics.CH 0398 Research and Seminar1-3 CreditsStudents undertake a research project in conjunction with a facultymember and present two seminars: one pertaining to a literaturetopic, the other focused on their research. Enrollment by departmentalpermission only.CH 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: CH 0262.This course, designed for students seeking an in-depth examination ofa pre-speciﬁed area under the close direction of a faculty member(s)presents topics not routinely encountered in the normal course sequence.Chinese (CI)CI 0110 Elementary Chinese I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Chinese or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.CI 0111 Elementary Chinese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: CI 0110.This course, a continuation of CI 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.CI 0210 Intermediate Chinese I3 CreditsThis course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.). Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.CI 0211 Intermediate Chinese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: CI 0210.This course, a continuation of CI 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through a widevariety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.). Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.CI 0220 Advanced Chinese3 CreditsPrerequisite: CI 0211.This course will continue to build on work completed through theintermediate level Chinese. All four skills: reading, listening, reading,and writing, will be further strengthened, but with emphasis onconsolidating conversational skills and improving reading conﬁdence.Upon completion of the course, students should be able to use integratedskills and cultural strategies to speak with some fluency on everydayconversational topics, read lengthier and more complex materials, writeshort but accurate compositions on computers using Chinese software,and develop a more sophisticated sense about the language and theculture.
CI 0221 Reading China3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: CI 0211.This course has the twin goals of increasing reading proﬁciency inChinese language and exploring Chinese culture. Topics are selectedfrom four main areas: Chinese Geography (e.g. city, countryside,landscape), Chinese Life (e.g. festivals, popular culture, everyday living),Chinese Society (e.g. family, social problems, internet use), and ChineseHistory and Thought (e.g. history, literature, myth, and philosophy).Students also learn how to use different resources and online tools toread and research China-related subjects on their own. Required readingsand assignments are in Chinese.CI 0250 Modern China Through Fiction and Film3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityA study of various cultural aspects of modern China in the 20th centurythrough reading translated ﬁction as well as ﬁlms. Students exploretopics such as modernity, nationalism, individualism, gender, and culturalidentity in the modern cultural-historical context. Also will be discussedare issues particular to ﬁction and ﬁlm as representational modes: Howdo ﬁction and ﬁlm narrate history and the complex Chinese experience?How have they both been shaped by and contributed to the socio-culturaltransformations? And how do they represent the increasingly diversiﬁedcultural and social landscape of contemporary China?CI 0251 New Chinese Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThe course examines the ﬁlms of major directors contributing to therise of "New Chinese Cinema" in mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kongsince the mid-1980s. Emphasis is on individual directors' distinctiveaesthetics and philosophy in the speciﬁc cultural-historical contextof ﬁlm production and reception. Students will study how these ﬁlmsrepresent history and memory, the relationship between individual andsociety, woman and gender, and how such ﬁlms participate in the culturalimagination of China and Chineseness in the global context. The goal willbe development of a basic ﬁlm-critical vocabulary. All ﬁlms have subtitles,and readings are in English.CI 0252 The City and Modern China3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityThe course studies the literary and visual representations of the cityin modern China through a sampling of stories, novels, photos, ﬁlms,and critical essays. Students discuss how literature and visual art bearwitnesses to the changing faces of the metropolis and urban life duringthe time of Chinese modernization and globalization and how the cityexpresses modern ethos, desires and paradoxes in literary works andﬁlms. All texts are in English. Films have subtitles.CI 0253 China and the West: Stories of Encounter3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThe course examines the relationship between China and the West withan emphasis on the intellectual and artistic aspects of the encounter inmodern times. We discuss both the West's experience and views of Chinaand China's response to the West and their modern global experience.The course materials, which include ﬁction, ﬁlms, non-ﬁctional essaysand theoretical articles, are arranged based on key historical ﬁgures,events, and issues. Students develop a foundational knowledge aboutChina-and-the-West intercultural experience and representations andlearn to think and analyze critically the relationships between ﬁction andhistory, art and life, and self and society. All texts are in English.CI 0381 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Chineseunder the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.CI 0382 Independent Study1-3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Chineseunder the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.Classical Studies (CL)CL 0106 Masterpieces of Greek Literature in English Translation3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800This course surveys major works of ancient Greek literature, emphasizingthe content of this literature as a key to understanding classical Greekcivilization and as meaningful in a contemporary context. This coursemay be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement in English literature.CL 0107 Masterpieces of Roman Literature in EnglishTranslation3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800This course surveys major works of Roman literature of the republicand early empire, emphasizing the content of this literature as a key tounderstanding Roman civilization, and as meaningful in a contemporarycontext. This course may be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement inEnglish literature.CL 0108 Myth in Classical Literature3 CreditsThis course introduces students to classical mythology through anexamination of the diverse ways in which myth and legend are treatedin the literatures of ancient Greece and Rome. Students read texts inEnglish translation; knowledge of Greek or Latin is not required. Thiscourse may be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement in English literature.CL 0109 Greek Tragedy in English Translation3 CreditsAn intensive study in translation of the surviving works of Aeschylus,Sophocles and Euripides. Knowledge of Greek is not required. This coursemay be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement in English literature.CL 0115 Greek Civilization3 CreditsStudents study the Greek experience: the social and cultural values,political institutions, and economic structures of the ancient Greeks andtheir effect on the historical process in the period down to the death ofAlexander. Knowledge of Greek is not required. This course may be takento fulﬁll the core requirement in History.CL 0116 Roman Civilization3 CreditsAttributes: ISIC Italian Studies: Italy ComponentRoman civilization spanned more than 1,000 years of history and culture,and influenced western society in profound ways. This course tracesRome's development from a small local tribe to a world power, examininghow it expanded and conquered the Mediterranean and absorbed intoits culture aspects of the peoples it defeated. Knowledge of Latin isnot required. This course may be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement inHistory.
CL 0127 Romantic Love in Greek and Roman Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The course of true love never did run smooth. From Homer's Penelopoeto Ovid's Remedies of Love we will examine the permutations of romanticdesire and its frustrations in the literature of Greece and Rome. Readingsalso include selections from Sappho's poetry, Sophocles' Women ofTrachis, Euripides' Hippolytos and Medea, comedies by Menander andTerence, Catullus poems to Lesbia, Vergil's tale of Dido and Aeneas,selections from the elegies of Tibullus Sulpicia, Propertius and Ovide,and briefer excerpts from other authors. All readings are in Englishtranslation. This course may be taken to fulﬁll the core requirement inEnglish literature.CL 0199 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course explores a speciﬁc topic in the interdisciplinary ﬁeld ofclassical studies. Content will vary in successive offerings of this course.CL 0221 Hellenistic World, 336-30 BC3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: CL 0115 or CL 0116 or HI 0010.The course examines the Mediterranean world and the ancient near eastfrom the late fourth to late ﬁrst centuries BC. Focus is on: the career ofAlexander the Great; the Greek kingdoms that emerge after the collapseof his empire; the interaction between local cultures and religions - e.g.Egypt, ancient Judaism - and Greek civilization; the social history of dailylife in conquered lands under Greek rule; and the transformations in theHellenistic world with the arrival of Roman rule.CL 0222 The Roman Revolution3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, ISIF ItalianStudies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: CL 0115 or CL 0116 or HI 0010.This course presents a comprehensive study of the political, social,artistic, literary, and military transformation of Rome from the middleof the second-century B.C. through the reign of Augustus, with specialattention given to Rome's response to the cultural and governmentalchallenges imposed by its growing empire and how its responses foreverchanged the course of Western civilization.CL 0223 The Roman World in Late Antiquity, 284-642 AD3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: CL 0115 or CL 0116 or HI 0010.The course examines the Mediterranean world from the third to seventhcenturies AD. Focus is on: the collapse of the Roman Empire in westernEurope; the dramatic upheavals caused by the arrival in the RomanEmpire of the Visigoths, Vandals, and other barbarian tribes; the survivalof the Byzantine East through the early Islamic conquests; the riseof Christianity from a persecuted religion to the ofﬁcial religion ofthe Roman Empire; and the accompanying cultural transformations,including the rise of monasticism and the importance of the holy man.CL 0224 Byzantine World3 CreditsAttributes: H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course is an introduction to political and social history of ByzantineEmpire. It also highlights Byzantium's role as a bridge between Greco-Roman antiquity and modern European civilization. Course lectureswill cover Byzantium's origins in the eastern half of the Roman Empire,Byzantium's middle period as a major Mediterranean power, and itslate period as an increasingly shrinking city-state. The course will alsointroduce students to some of the major Byzantine historians and tomethods of analysis using these sources, and train students to formhistorical arguments based on these analyses.CL 0325 Athenian Democracy and Empire3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: CL 0115 or CL 0116 or HI 0010; CL 0115 or CL 0116 or one200-level History course.This history seminar provides an in-depth exploration of classicalAthens at the height of its power in the ﬁfth century BC. Its focus ison close reading of the primary sources describing the rise and fall ofAthens in this period. It places particular emphasis on the parallel rise ofAthenian democracy at home and the Athenian empire overseas. It placessecondary emphasis on the nature of Athenian intellectual discourse inthis period. A ﬁnal research project will engage modern scholarly debateson the nature of ﬁfth-century Athens.CL 0399 Capstone Project in Classics3 CreditsPrerequisite: At least seven courses in the individually designed major.Students completing an individually designed major in classical studiesdevelop and carry out a major project that allows them to pull togetherthe multiple threads of their interdisciplinary major.Communication (CO)CO 0100 Human Communication Theories3 CreditsThis course introduces major theoretical perspectives that informcommunication scholarship. This foundational course for the majoremphasizes understanding human communication as a symbolicprocess that creates, maintains, and alters personal, social, and culturalidentities. Students critique research literature in the communicationﬁeld in this course, which is a prerequisite for the 200- and 300-levelcommunication courses. This course counts in the social and behavioralsciences core curriculum for non-majors.CO 0101 Argument and Advocacy3 CreditsThis introduction to public speaking and the advocacy process includestopic identiﬁcation; methods of organization, research, selection, andarrangement of support materials; audience analysis and adaptation;patterns and fallacies of reasoning; uses of evidence; logical proof; andrefutation. Students practice and critique informative and persuasivepresentations in this course, which is a skill required in all 200- and 300-level communication courses.CO 0102 Introduction to Public Relations3 CreditsThis course introduces public relations as a ﬁeld of study and as apractice. Through building critical thinking and considering ethicalbehaviors, this course will not only introduce you to the various typesof public relations but will also help you to become a critical consumerof the public relations efforts taking place in the world around you whiledeveloping your own public relations tools and strategies.CO 0130 Mass Media and Society3 CreditsAttributes: GDCO Graphic Design: CommunicationThis media literacy course offers theoretical and practical tools tocritically analyze media texts, as well as understand different ways inwhich audiences interact with them. Students will inquire into how thepervasive mediation of human experience through mass communicationchannels affects almost every aspect of socialization processes andpeople's symbolic environment. The interplay between structuralconstraints conveyed in media's messages and humans' capacity toexercise interpretive agency is addressed through lectures, audiovisualexamples, hands-on activities, and a variety of assignments aimed atdiscerning the elements that intervene in the construction and receptionof media texts, beyond their apparent components. This course counts inthe social and behavioral sciences core curriculum for non-majors.
CO 0200 Interpersonal Communication Theories3 CreditsPrerequisite: CO 0100.An examination of one-to-one relationships from a variety of theoreticalperspectives, this course focuses on the centrality of communication inbuilding familial bonds, friendships, and work teams. Students examinefactors influencing interpersonal communication such as language,perception, nonverbal behavior, power, status, and gender roles.CO 0201 Persuasion3 CreditsPrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.This course develops students' understanding of the major theoreticalapproaches to the study of persuasion as a particular type of socialinfluence, giving speciﬁc attention to the processes of interpersonalinfluence and the media's role in changing social attitudes. Studentsconstruct communication campaigns to apply persuasion concepts andskills.CO 0202 Small Group Communication3 CreditsPrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.This course examines the basic characteristics and consequences ofsmall-group communication processes in various contexts includingfamily, education, and work groups. The course stresses interactionanalysis and teambuilding. Because the course involves examining smallgroups in process, students do a substantial amount of group work.CO 0220 Introduction to Organizational Communication3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business ElectivePrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.Taking a historical and communication-centered approach tounderstanding how business and professional organizations function,this course addresses the analysis of upward, downward, and lateralcommunication; communication channels and networks; power andcritical theory; organizations as cultures; internal and external publiccommunication; and leadership. The course uses a case study approach.CO 0231 Media Institutions3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: CO 0130.The course concentrates on the economic, political, and legalenvironment of U.S. mass media. Issues include examination ofindividual media industries, the economic structure of U.S. mediamarkets, media law and regulation, media watchdogs, advocacyorganizations, and media users' forms of collective action. The course'scontent is approached through an institutional analysis perspective,intended to facilitate students' understanding of institutions as dynamicpoints of confluence for organizations, norms, and individual agents. Aspart of the course's requirements, students conduct a research projectexploring recent developments and/or decision-making processes withinone of the major media institutions covered during the semester.CO 0233 Information Technologies: Economics, Law, and Policy3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: CO 0130.An in-depth exploration of current issues and trends that shape theinstitutional environment of information industries and new media, bothdomestically and globally. By digesting and analyzing a diversity ofscholarly sources, news reports, and materials generated by multiplestakeholders, students will gain a critical perspective on major economic,legal, and policy questions that affect the production, access to,circulation, and processing of digital content, such as broadbandpenetration, regulation of intellectual property, crowdsourcing, privacy,surveillance, net neutrality, emerging revenue models for informationgoods, and regulation and governance of the Internet.CO 0236 Gender, Sexuality, and Media3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: CO 0130.This course enables students to examine the relationship between therepresentation of women and the development of personal and socialidentity. Students explore issues of gender and reception, cultivatingconsumerism, body image, and developing relevant new images throughtheoretical readings as well as the analysis of various media, includingtelevision, ﬁlm, magazines, and advertisements. The course also coversthe experiences of women in a variety of media professions.CO 0237 Sports, Media, and Culture3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: CO 0130.Sports have long played a vital yet complex role in culture and thiscourse examines the intersection of sports, the mass media, and society.Drawing upon Durkheimian theory, we will appraise and debate the waysin which sports are functional or problematic in their impact on andrelationship to players, fans, journalists, co-cultural groups, and nations.Students will read both scholarly and journalistic reflections, viewpopular and documentary ﬁlms, and analyze fan experiences, mediatedpresentations, and critical social issues. In short, we will go beyond thebox score to understand the importance - and deconstruct the hype - thataccompanies modern sports.CO 0238 Communication and Popular Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ASCO American Studies: CommunicationPrerequisite: CO 0130.This course takes the cultural artifacts that engulf us, from fashion totelevision and from music to comic books, and removes these practicesand texts from simply being "entertainment" or "diversion" and askswhat these things mean, how they constitute power, and how they shapeand reflect the lived experiences of consumers. This course takes veryseriously those things that are typically discarded as lacking substanceand instead suggests that the meanings and impact of popular culturehave dramatic consequences for political, social, and cultural life in theUnited States.CO 0239 Consumer Culture3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: CO 0130.This course explores how social meanings are constructed throughcommodities and material society, how consumer goods and practicescreate categories of social difference. In particular, the course focuseson the intersections of consumer practices and gender/sexuality,race and class, articulating the relationship between communicationand consumption practices and social/cultural identities. Theoreticalapproaches include Marxism, Postmodernism, and other economic andsocial critiques, and explore research methods to empirically investigatequestions of culture. Students reflect on questions of social justice inrelation to an increasingly materialistic society as they seek to becomecitizens prepared to "consume with a conscience."
CO 0240 Intercultural Communication3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102 or IL 0050.This course deals with challenges to communication between people ofdifferent cultural backgrounds, emphasizing the ways communicationpractices reveal cultural values and the role of communication in creatingand sustaining cultural identities. Students discuss how differencesin value orientation, perception, thought patterns, and nonverbalbehavior cause misunderstanding, tension, and conflict in business,education, and healthcare settings. Registration preference is given toCommunication and International Studies majors.CO 0241 Communication and Culture: East and West3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102 or IL 0050.This course examines the dynamics of culture and communicationfocusing on the East-West dyad. It helps students gain a betterunderstanding of why and how cultural issues influence ourcommunication. The course explores the East-West cultural similaritiesand differences in values, communication processes, cognition, andrelationships. It will enhance students' intercultural awareness andsensitivity in our increasingly globalized society.CO 0242 Alcohol, Addiction and Culture3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.From the time we are young children through our adult lives we areexposed to countless alcohol advertisements and engage in myriadalcohol-focused conversations with family, friends and coworkers. Thiscourse draws on perspectives from the personal to the institutional tocritically examine the conversations on alcohol consumption, promotion,education and recovery from a health communication perspective.Through service learning opportunities with local high school seniors,students in the course reflects on the ways in which we talk aboutalcohol use, abuse, and alcoholism, and how that "talk" cultivates harmfuland helpful perceptions and behaviors.CO 0245 Identities, Discourse, and Social Change3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIVU.S. Diversity, WSGC Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderComponentPrerequisite: CO 0100.Grounded in the premise that identities are inseparable fromcommunication, this course focuses on the negotiation of, and thediscursive practices pertaining to, social identities by exploring theintersections of ethnicity-race, gender, sexuality, social class, ability andage. Given that individual-group differences matter, this course addressessocial issues and concerns by concentrating on how structures of powerand privilege shape understandings of salient social identities within theUnited States. Additionally, this course will raise questions about the roleof communication research in fostering social change.CO 0246 Family Communication3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.In this course students come to understand how families are constitutedthrough symbolic processes and interaction; explore the verbal and non-verbal communication behaviors that are developed and preferred indifferent kinds of families; learn various theories for understanding familyinteractions at the individual, dyadic, group, and systems levels; analyzefamily communication patterns using established theories and methods;connect family dynamics to social trends and processes including theroles of the mass media and popular culture; and explore ways culture,class, gender, and sexuality affect and are affected by family structures,roles, and communication patterns.CO 0248 Health Communication3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisite: CO 0100 or CO 0102.This course surveys the multidimensional processes used to create,maintain, and transform complex scientiﬁc information into everydayhealthcare practices. A major emphasis is on the processes andcomplexities of communicating health information in a variety of settings(in hospitals, families, insurance companies, policy organizations,etc.) and through different channels (face-to-face, in medical records,through the mass media, etc.). We will study the verbal and non-verbalcommunication behaviors of providers, patients, families, insurers,and others in healthcare contexts, as well as health-related messagesin the mass media, in order to understand effective and problematiccommunication about illness and health.CO 0309 Research Projects in Communication: Capstone3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0100 or CO 0102, CO 0101, CO 0130, CO 0200 orCO 0220, senior standing, and at least one intermediate or advancedcourse in student's area of concentrated study.This course allows students to demonstrate their expertise ascommunication scholars through discussion and evaluation ofcontemporary research in communication. The course examinesqualitative and quantitative methodologies in understanding the researchdesign process. As members of research teams, students design andconduct research projects related to their areas of concentrated study.This is the required major capstone course.CO 0321 Communication Processes in Organizations:Negotiation3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course reviews and explores, through simulation and experientiallearning, negotiation as a communication process in and amongorganizations. It focuses on core concepts and approaches tonegotiation, and exercises the negotiative process in a contemporarycontext. In this course, which is open to majors and minors incommunication and other disciplines related to the study of humans andtheir organizations in the work world, participants carry out individualand team work, and contribute on time and proportionately to teampreparations and class simulations.
CO 0322 Leadership Communication3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course examines the processes and complexities of being a leaderin today's dynamic organizational environment. The course explores theleadership styles, traits, and communication skills required of effectiveleaders. In addition, theories of leadership and the impact of cultureand ethics, both historically and currently, will be studied. This courseuses a combination of lecture, discussion, individual and group learningopportunities, including interviews of professional and communityleaders, as well as a written and oral research projects to aid in students'assimilation of the material.CO 0323 Gender and Organizing3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.Gender is central to how we organize our lives. The way we communicateabout gender can enhance or undermine all of our relationships. Thepurpose of this seminar is to augment, or even change, our understandingof the relationship between gender, communication, and organizations.Speciﬁcally, the goal for this course is to use a combination of scholarlyessays and journal articles as well as popular news media to examinecritically topics such as femininity, masculinity, and sexuality within thefollowing contexts: education, sports, politics/government, leadership,the military, and other professions and organizations.CO 0324 Crisis Communication3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method CoursePrerequisites: CO 0200 or CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course discusses key concepts, principles, and best practicesof crisis communication. Intersections with other areas of thecommunication ﬁeld will also be addressed, including public relations andorganizational and risk communication. Students will understand the rolestrategic communication, power, stakeholders, and organizational cultureplay during a crisis. This course analyzes case studies of previous crisesand will ask students to provide their own plans and critical assessmentsof recent crises.CO 0325 Organizational Communication and Advertising3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course will highlight how organizations market, promote, andadvertise their brands. The importance of advertising for organizations,consumers, and the U.S. economy will also be a central focus of thisclass. Furthermore, the critical roles of research, audience analysis,persuasion, and effective communication in altering consumers'perceptions will be explored from both theoretical and appliedperspectives. The value of deconstructing ads from a consumer, brandmanager, and advertiser's viewpoint will be stressed and explored.In addition, the historical and contemporary ethical implications ofadvertising, especially in health care and for children, will be closelyexamined.CO 0329 Contemporary Topics in Organizational Communication3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This is an upper-level, undergraduate seminar for students in theOrganizational Communication emphasis of the major. The courseprovides an opportunity to examine in depth particular theoriesof organizational communication, or to conduct research aboutcommunication in particular types of organizations. Emphasis is oncontemporary theoretical and/or methodological approaches to theclose analysis of interpersonal, group, and intercultural communicationin organizational settings, or strategic communication practices oforganizations with their external audiences/publics. Topics may include:Organizational Communication in the Global Economy; Communication inHealthcare Organizations; Gender and Communication in Organizations;and Communication in Organizational Crisis. Students may take thiscourse up to two times with different topics.CO 0330 Misinformation in Digital Media3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course critically examines the causes for, and the consequences of,the proliferation of false and misleading information in online spaces.While the ubiquity of false information online is often talked about as ifit is random or inevitable, this class will detail the speciﬁc mechanismsby which false information is produced, spread, and consumed. Moreimportantly, it will contextualize the practice within larger social, culture,and geopolitical environments and connect it to the larger history ofmisinformation and media technologies. Finally, the course will preparestudents to combat false and misleading information encountered in theirown media diets.CO 0331 American Media / American History3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course examines the role of communication media in history, aswell as the history of the media industries. From the earliest media ofsymbolic interaction to the newest technologies, the course examineswhy different media come into being, how they function in varioussocieties, and their impact. Students come to understand how mediahave been influential in maintaining social order and as agents of change.The course pays attention to a variety of national media and internationalperspectives, with special emphasis on the evolution of Americanbroadcasting.CO 0332 Children as Media Consumers3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course aims to provide a forum for advanced Communicationstudents to explore the patterns of children's media consumption,focusing primarily on children's use of the so-called "screenmedia" (television, videogames, and the Internet), and to investigatethe multi-faceted consequences -- both positive and negative, socialand individual -- of children's media consumption. Students will drawupon contemporary theories of communication to assess the contentof children's media and its "effects" on children as a particular segmentof the audience. Students will develop an informed understanding ofchildren as media consumers, advocating for the production of "quality"content in children's media.
CO 0333 News Media and Democracy3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.The news media play an essential role in changing America and the world-- by bridging theory with practice, this course aims to equip students tobecome critical news consumers with a skilled understanding of how thatworks and politically literate about the big issues of our time. Throughclassic scholarly reflections as well as contemporary punditry, we willtackle the news media "critically" across three dimensions: learning aboutits indispensible function in mediating politics and democracy throughouthistory and today; studying and practicing the craft of opining writing andsocial advocacy; and evaluating and critiquing the performance of thepress in these matters.CO 0334 Comparative Media Systems3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course provides a comparative overview of the economic andregulatory structure of media industries worldwide. By exploring theways in which different institutional frameworks, structural factors,and audiences' agency affect mass communication within and acrossregional borders, this course offers a comprehensive picture of commonand interdependent processes underlying the individual development ofmedia industries in each region. Students learn about emerging marketand research trends concerning international media. Issues related tofree flow of messages, social responsibility, universal access, intellectualcommons, participatory communication, developmental communication,and cultural diversity in the global exchange of media messages throughdiscussion of current, real-life cases, as well as through design andexecution of an original research project.CO 0335 Globalization, Media, and Culture3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130 or IL 0050; junior or senior standing.Globalization, a complex and transformative process that influences ourlives at every level, has produced the increased flow of goods, capital,people, knowledge, images, crime, pollutants, drugs, fashion, viruses,and beliefs across territorial and ideological boundaries of all kinds. Thiscourse focuses on the role of communication media (radio, television,ﬁlm, computers) in the processes of globalization and examines theimpact of globalization on cultural representations, cultural identity, andinternational relations.CO 0336 Social Media3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.At the turn of the millennium, social media was still an unknown term;today, it is inescapably altering the landscape of our world and our lives incomplex ways. This course examines social media by historicizing whatis timeless about it and charting its new frontiers for humankind. Througha mix of scholarly, journalistic, and professional industry readings onsocial media, we will explore how culture, community, and identity arebeing reshaped alongside politics, business, and (what was once called)the mass communication industry.CO 0337 Visual Communication3 CreditsAttributes: GDCO Graphic Design: CommunicationPrerequisite: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course provides a broad introduction to the structure, conventions,and effects of visual communication with a theoretical emphasison media ecology. The ﬁrst half is devoted to understanding formalproperties including examining the basics of vision, techniques for visualpersuasion, and the language of cinematography and editing. The secondhalf surveys more controversial issues like digital manipulation andviolence and sex in media. Course material and assignments will bedrawn from media domains including advertising, photo/video journalism,and video games. Students will read both theoretical contributions to andempirical investigations of the ﬁeld.CO 0338 Media Audiences3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course has three related aims: to introduce the theoretical andacademic study of media audiences, to introduce students to qualitativeﬁeld research methods, and to prepare students to engage with thecurrent media industry through an examination of applied audienceresearch. Recognizing that the study of media audiences is an importanttheoretical as well as practical endeavor, we will consider how audienceshave been studied historically, in the academy, and within mediaindustries.CO 0339 Topics in Media Theory and Criticism3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course provides an opportunity to examine in depth particular mediatheories or to conduct careful media analysis and criticism. The courseemphasizes contemporary theoretical and/or methodological approachesto the close analysis of television, radio, newspaper, the Internet, and/ormagazine texts so as to understand the ways meaning is constructedand situated within the larger social context. Topics may include massmedia and the public sphere; television criticism; sex, lies, and videos;and children and the media. Students may take this course up to twotimes with different topics.CO 0340 Conflict Communication3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0200 or CO 0220; junior or senior standing.Conflict is a natural part of human life that has a variety of potentialconsequences. Although conflict can be disruptive and destructive, itcan also be constructive and lead to improved adjustment and betterdecisions. The course is designed to offer you opportunities to enhanceand improve your techniques and skills in managing conflict and movingthem in a productive direction. The course examines the dynamics ofhuman conflict across a variety of settings from personal relationshipsto the workplace, with special attention to the communication processesthat escalate, manage, and mediate conflict.CO 0341 End of Life Communication3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisites: CO 0200 or CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course focuses on the only reality for every human being: death.However, in spite of its certainty, American culture tends to minimizeor ignore discussions of death and provides little insight into effectivecommunication strategies for healthcare providers, family members,friends, and lovers. The complexities of this unique communicationwill be assessed vis-à-vis an applied approach that includes a service-learning opportunity at a 51-bed hospice. In addition, the course willinclude self-reflection, autoethnography, an exploration of scholarlyresearch in palliative communication, and scholarly interaction betweenundergraduate students in the classroom and the hospice setting.
CO 0342 Technoculture and Information Society3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0130; junior or senior standing.This course explores phenomena, trends, and theories related toemerging information and communication technologies (ICTs), as well asrelationships among those technologies, socio-economic structures, "old"media institutions, media users, and culture. Through a combination oftheoretical and practical explorations that emphasize historical, ethical,and critical thinking, the course introduces students to academic andnon-academic perspectives on new media.CO 0343 Ethics and Medical Marketing Communication3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.This course will explore the dialectical tensions between the need for safeand effective products/services and the expectations for corporationsto generate proﬁts and dividends for their stakeholders. This course willuse an applied ethics lens to examine the organizational, marketing,advertising, and corporate communication to clients, consumers,vendors, and investors.The content and ethical implications of marketingcommunication (from a variety of organizational perspectives: healthcare,economics, cultural, etc.) on expected and unintended outcomes will alsobe discussed and analyzed.CO 0344 Interracial Communication3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: CO 0200; junior or senior standing.This course focuses on the ways in which communication theories andresearch can improve the existing state of race relations in the UnitedStates. Throughout the course, up-to-date issues that surface locally andnationally in the media that illustrate the relevance of improved interracialcommunication will be addressed through class discussion and linked tocourse assignments. Using case studies to explore interracial exchangesin close relationships, at the workplace, and reflected in social media,students will link theory with practical applications in an effort to betterunderstand interracial communication.CO 0345 Relational Communication3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0200 or CO 0220; junior or senior standing.Close relationships can bring us a great deal of joy, happiness, and love,but unfortunately they can also be sources of frustration, pain, andconflict. This course is designed to help us understand the critical roleof communication in developing, maintaining, and terminating closerelationships with romantic partners, friends, and family members. Thecourse examines the most current research and theory on a varietyof topics that are central to understanding and maintaining closerelationships, with a focus on attraction, attachment, conflict, power,emotion, transgression, reconciliation, and termination.CO 0346 Communication and Spirituality3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0200; junior or senior standing.This course engages a critical understanding of the way in whichspirituality is constructed through communication. Using the uniqueperspectives and empirical tools of the communication discipline,the course seeks to familiarize students with the variety of ways inwhich spirituality has been studied both within and outside of religion.Examining various contexts that engage spiritual discourses, frominterpersonal communication settings to organizational, health andmass mediated settings, students reflect on the potential for spiritualdiscourses to transform individuals and society, and consider their ownparticipation in such discourses.CO 0347 Communication in Healthcare Organizations3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisites: CO 0248; junior or senior standing.This course explores the organizational communication of modern U.S.healthcare organizations, including: Managed Care, Insurers, HealthcareSystems, and Medicare/Medicaid. The primary purposes of this courseare to provide an understanding of how communication within, andfrom healthcare corporations impacts the organization, its employees,the health of its customers and U.S. healthcare delivery. This coursewill evaluate and explore the multidimensional processes involved inhealthcare organizations and how communication is critical to theirsuccess or failure and to the health and well-being of their customers.CO 0348 Risk Communication3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisites: CO 0220; junior or senior standing.Risk Communication examines the communication theories andresearch that underlie the study of risky behaviors and the developmentof effective responses to perceived risks. This course provides anunderstanding of how communication impacts our assessment of risk,critical thinking and policy making about risk prevention and response,and the creation of preventive programs and campaigns. Studentswill evaluate and explore the multidimensional processes involved inresearching and responding to sustained risks or emergency situations,utilize communication theory to develop appropriate campaigns,and assess their success or failure. Topics may focus on health andenvironmental risks, security, or disaster response.CO 0349 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisites: CO 0200, CO 0220, CO 0240; junior or senior standing.This course focuses on a speciﬁc context where social identities arenegotiated through particular discursive practices, emphasizing theverbal and nonverbal communication behaviors that are appropriatein this context and through which people constitute and perform theiridentities. The course examines symbolic practices and communicationnorms in families, self-help groups, television talk shows, cybercommunities, social movements, and genders/sexualities, usingapproaches such as symbolic convergence theory, social constructivism,ethnography of communication, and conversational analysis. Studentsmay take this course up to two times with different topics.CO 0397 Independent Study1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior or senior standing.This course allows students to thoroughly investigate communicationconcepts, theories, or issues presented in a previously completedcommunication course. Independent study does not substitute for anyother required course(s) in the communication program and students'investigations must be scholarly in intent. An independent study may betaken no more than twice. Enrollment by permission only.CO 0399 Internship1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior or senior standing.Communication internships provide students with ﬁrst-hand knowledgeabout the ﬁeld of work, allow them to experience new professionalactivities and relationships, help them apply conceptual knowledge andskills in communication in the work environment, and allow them toexperience the problems and successes of efﬁciently and effectivelycommunicating within a complex organization. One three-creditinternship course can be used toward the major. Students may take aninternship twice for credit. Students must have a GPA of 2.8 or higher.
CO 0400 Communication Philosophies, Theories, and ResearchTraditions3 CreditsThis class is designed to provide an introduction for the graduatestudent to the diverse and voluminous research in the area of humancommunication. As such, it covers an extremely wide range ofintellectual, scientiﬁc, and historical material. It is a survey course, but wewill deal with selected areas in depth. This course will not only introducethe areas of human communication theory and research, but it will alsointroduce the process of theorizing and thinking about communication.Therefore, the nature of theory, research, and intellectual inquiry is animportant part of this course.CO 0410 Perspectives and Theories in OrganizationalCommunication3 CreditsThis course is intended to highlight organizations and how theyare created, maintained and changed through social interaction.Communicating by organizational members is essentially organizing. Thecourse examines organizational communication from both functional andconstructivist perspectives.CO 0420 Communication Research Design and Methodologies3 CreditsA detailed review of research methods and procedures relevant tomeasuring the phenomena and characteristics of human communicationbehavior in a variety of contexts and relationships. Quantitative,qualitative, and critical approaches are reviewed and practiced in courseprojects. Applications of research methods to describing and evaluatingcommunication are studied.CO 0430 Written Communication3 CreditsExplores how written communication by its very nature is drasticallydifferent from verbal and other nonverbal forms of communication.Considers the effect a printable form of communication has on themessage, the sender and receiver, and the potential legal issuesassociated with written communication. This course focuses on theimpact of written messages for intrapersonal, interpersonal, small group,organizational, intercultural, and mass media communication. Examinesthe historical transformation in content, style, and perception fromletters, memos, and notes to the evolving electronic formats for writtencommunication including: e-mails, blogs, chat rooms, e-networking/e-cultures, wikis, etc.CO 0431 Media Law and Institutions3 CreditsThe course concentrates on the legal and economic environment ofU.S. mass media. Topics include examination of major doctrines ofmedia law, organization and operation of individual media industries, theeconomic structure of U.S. media markets, the role of media watchdogsand advocacy organizations, as well as media users' forms of collectiveaction. The course's content is approached through an institutionalanalysis perspective, intended to facilitate students' understanding ofinstitutions as dynamic points of confluence for organizations, norms,and individual agents. As part of the course's requirements, studentsconduct a research project exploring recent developments in mediaregulation and/or decision-making processes within one of the majormedia institutions covered during the semester.CO 0440 Ethics and Communication3 CreditsCoursework includes a comprehensive overview of the development ofethics from ancient to contemporary thought and practices. Emphasisis placed on the ethical agenda, problems, and responsibilities ofcontemporary organizations in diverse cultures. Case studies and studentresearch focus on contemporary issues in the ethical communicativeperformance. The relationship between Jesuit philosophy and appliedcommunication work in organizations is also explored.CO 0448 Health Risk Communication3 CreditsThis is a one-week, predominantly face-to-face course that includesonline interactions. This course examines the theories and researchthat underlie the study of health risk communication and behaviors.The primary purpose of this course is to provide an understanding ofhow communication impacts our assessment of health risk behaviors,critical thinking, the creation of preventive programs, and outcomes.This course will evaluate and explore the multidimensional processesinvolved in researching the communication of risky behaviors andhow organizations can utilize health communication theory to developappropriate campaigns and assess their success or failure.CO 0497A Gender and Organizing3 CreditsGender is central to how we organize our lives. The way we communicateabout gender can enhance or undermine all of our relationships. Thepurpose of this seminar is to augment, or even change, our understandingof the relationship between gender, communication, and organizations.Speciﬁcally, the goal for this course is to use a combination of scholarlyessays and journal articles as well as popular news media to examinecritically topics such as femininity, masculinity, and sexuality within thefollowing contexts: education, sports, politics/government, leadership,the military, and other professions and organizations. Undergraduateequivalent: CO 0323.CO 0497B Risk Communication3 CreditsRisk Communication examines the communication theories andresearch that underlie the study of risky behaviors and the developmentof effective responses to perceived risks. This course provides anunderstanding of how communication impacts our assessment of risk,critical thinking and policy making about risk prevention and response,and the creation of preventive programs and campaigns. Studentswill evaluate and explore the multidimensional processes involved inresearching and responding to sustained risks or emergency situations,utilize communication theory to develop appropriate campaigns,and assess their success or failure. Topics may focus on health andenvironmental risks, security, or disaster response. Undergraduateequivalent: CO 0348.CO 0497C Technoculture and Information Society3 CreditsThis course explores phenomena, trends, and theories related toemerging information and communication technologies (ICTs), as well asrelationships among those technologies, socio-economic structures, "old"media institutions, media users, and culture. Through a combination oftheoretical and practical explorations that emphasize historical, ethical,and critical thinking, the course introduces students to academic andnon-academic perspectives on new media. Undergraduate equivalent:CO 0342.CO 0497D End of Life Communication3 CreditsThis course focuses on the only reality for every human being: death.However, in spite of its certainty, American culture tends to minimizeor ignore discussions of death and provides little insight into effectivecommunication strategies for healthcare providers, family members,friends, and lovers. The complexities of this unique communicationwill be assessed vis-à-vis an applied approach that includes a service-learning opportunity at a 51-bed hospice. In addition, the course willinclude self-reflection, autoethnography, an exploration of scholarlyresearch in palliative communication, and scholarly interaction betweenstudents in the classroom and the hospice setting. Undergraduateequivalent: CO 0341.
CO 0497E Comparative Media Systems3 CreditsThis course provides a comparative overview of the economic andregulatory structure of media industries worldwide. By exploring theways in which different institutional frameworks, structural factors,and audiences' agency affect mass communication within and acrossregional borders, this course offers a comprehensive picture of commonand interdependent processes underlying the individual development ofmedia industries in each region. Students learn about emerging marketand research trends concerning international media. Issues related tofree flow of messages, social responsibility, universal access, intellectualcommons, participatory communication, developmental communication,and cultural diversity in the global exchange of media messages throughdiscussion of current, real-life cases, as well as through design andexecution of an original research project. Undergraduate equivalent:CO 0334.CO 0497F Organizational Communication and Advertising3 CreditsThis course will highlight how organizations market, promote, andadvertise their brands. The importance of advertising for organizations,consumers, and the U.S. economy will also be a central focus of thisclass. Furthermore, the critical roles of research, audience analysis,persuasion, and effective communication in altering consumers'perceptions will be explored from both theoretical and appliedperspectives. The value of deconstructing ads from a consumer, brandmanager, and advertiser's viewpoint will be stressed and explored.In addition, the historical and contemporary ethical implications ofadvertising, especially in health care and for children, will be closelyexamined. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0325.CO 0497G Globalization, Media, and Culture3 CreditsGlobalization, a complex and transformative process that influences ourlives at every level, has produced the increased flow of goods, capital,people, knowledge, images, crime, pollutants, drugs, fashion, viruses,and beliefs across territorial and ideological boundaries of all kinds. Thiscourse focuses on the role of communication media (radio, television,ﬁlm, computers) in the processes of globalization and examines theimpact of globalization on cultural representations, cultural identity, andinternational relations. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0335.CO 0497H Visual Communication3 CreditsThis course provides a broad introduction to the structure, conventions,and effects of visual communication with a theoretical emphasison media ecology. The ﬁrst half is devoted to understanding formalproperties including examining the basics of vision, techniques for visualpersuasion, and the language of cinematography and editing. The secondhalf surveys more controversial issues like digital manipulation andviolence and sex in media. Course material and assignments will bedrawn from media domains including advertising, photo/video journalism,and video games. Students will read both theoretical contributions to andempirical investigations of the ﬁeld. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0337.CO 0497I Media Audiences3 CreditsThis course has three related aims: to introduce the theoretical andacademic study of media audiences, to introduce students to qualitativeﬁeld research methods, and to prepare students to engage with thecurrent media industry through an examination of applied audienceresearch. Recognizing that the study of media audiences is an importanttheoretical as well as practical endeavor, we will consider how audienceshave been studied historically, in the academy, and within mediaindustries. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0338.CO 0497J Crisis Communication3 CreditsThis course discusses key concepts, principles, and best practicesof crisis communication. Intersections with other areas of thecommunication ﬁeld will also be addressed, including public relations andorganizational and risk communication. Students will understand the rolestrategic communication, power, stakeholders, and organizational cultureplay during a crisis. This course analyzes case studies of previous crisesand will ask students to provide their own plans and critical assessmentsof recent crises. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0324.CO 0497K Ethics and Medical Marketing Communication3 CreditsThis course will explore the dialectical tensions between the need for safeand effective products/services and the expectations for corporationsto generate proﬁts and dividends for their stakeholders. This course willuse an applied ethics lens to examine the organizational, marketing,advertising, and corporate communication to clients, consumers,vendors, and investors.The content and ethical implications of marketingcommunication (from a variety of organizational perspectives: healthcare,economics, cultural, etc.) on expected and unintended outcomes will alsobe discussed and analyzed. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0343.CO 0497L Social Media3 CreditsAt the turn of the millennium, social media was still an unknown term;today, it is inescapably altering the landscape of our world and our lives incomplex ways. This course examines social media by historicizing whatis timeless about it and charting its new frontiers for humankind. Througha mix of scholarly, journalistic, and professional industry readings onsocial media, we will explore how culture, community, and identity arebeing reshaped alongside politics, business, and (what was once called)the mass communication industry. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0336.CO 0497M Communication Processes in Organizations:Negotiation3 CreditsThis course reviews and explores, through simulation and experientiallearning, negotiation as a communication process in and amongorganizations. It focuses on core concepts and approaches tonegotiation, and exercises the negotiative process in a contemporarycontext. In this course, which is open to majors and minors incommunication and other disciplines related to the study of humans andtheir organizations in the work world, participants carry out individualand team work, and contribute on time and proportionately to teampreparations and class simulations. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0321.CO 0497N Relational Communication3 CreditsClose relationships can bring us a great deal of joy, happiness, and love,but unfortunately they can also be sources of frustration, pain, andconflict. This course is designed to help us understand the critical roleof communication in developing, maintaining, and terminating closerelationships with romantic partners, friends, and family members. Thecourse examines the most current research and theory on a varietyof topics that are central to understanding and maintaining closerelationships, with a focus on attraction, attachment, conflict, power,emotion, transgression, reconciliation, and termination. Undergraduateequivalent: CO 0345.
CO 0497O Conflict Communication3 CreditsConflict is a natural part of human life that has a variety of potentialconsequences. Although conflict can be disruptive and destructive, itcan also be constructive and lead to improved adjustment and betterdecisions. The course is designed to offer you opportunities to enhanceand improve your techniques and skills in managing conflict and movingthem in a productive direction. The course examines the dynamics ofhuman conflict across a variety of settings from personal relationshipsto the workplace, with special attention to the communication processesthat escalate, manage, and mediate conflict. Undergraduate equivalent:CO 0340.CO 0497P Interracial Communication3 CreditsThis course explores current trends in literature on the topics of racerelations, communication styles and patterns, communication theory,and the social construction of race along with its influence on howindividuals from different races communicate. Throughout the course,up-to-date issues that surface locally and nationally in the media thatillustrate the relevance of improved interracial communication will beaddressed through class discussion and linked to course assignments.Using case studies to explore interracial exchanges in close relationships,at the workplace, and reflected in social media, students will link theorywith practical applications in an effort to better understand interracialcommunication.CO 0497Q Misinformation in Digital Media3 CreditsThis course critically examines the causes for, and the consequences of,the proliferation of false and misleading information in online spaces.While the ubiquity of false information online is often talked about as ifit is random or inevitable, this class will detail the speciﬁc mechanismsby which false information is produced, spread, and consumed. Moreimportantly, it will contextualize the practice within larger social, culture,and geopolitical environments and connect it to the larger history ofmisinformation and media technologies. Finally, the course will preparestudents to combat false and misleading information encountered in theirown media diets. Undergraduate equivalent: CO 0330.CO 0498 Communication Practicum3 CreditsCommunication Practicum is a semester-long internship or other type ofplacement carried out by graduate students in Communication in local,national or inter-national contexts. These placements are determinedin conjunction with, and carried out under the supervision of, a facultymember. Practicums allow students to gain professional experience;where possible these activities should relate directly to thesis projectsand other long-term academic interests. Students must commit to aminimum of 120 hours at an approved work site (internships cannot bedone at a student's place of employment) and are also responsible forcompleting additional academic requirements.CO 0500 Interpersonal Communication3 CreditsThis course is a critical examination of the major theories ofinterpersonal communication and an exploration of interpersonalcommunication research in relational and organizational contexts.Student projects will use social science research methods to examinefactors influencing interpersonal communication such as language,perception, nonverbal behavior, power, status, and gender roles.CO 0502 Small Group and Team Communication3 CreditsThis course is a study of the communication dimensions and dynamicsof small groups, teams, and networks of organizational actors.Coursework and projects focus on interpersonal processes andstructures for tasking and relating effectively in organizational settings.The special characteristics of virtual team and technology-enhanceddecision-making work are investigated.CO 0522 Communication and Organizational Leadership3 CreditsThis course focuses on the communication behaviors that constituteleadership. Models explore interpersonal influence, power inorganizations, leading decision-making teams and task-oriented groups,and developing situational leadership skills. Early and contemporaryresearch perspectives on leadership are reviewed and critically analyzed.Student projects include case studies and reviews of role-model leaders.CO 0524 Negotiation and Conflict Management: CommunicationApproaches3 CreditsThis course explores a selection of conflict situations with particularemphasis on organizational and community settings. Theoreticalexploration focuses on the nature of conflict, and negotiation anddialogue as communication processes. The course privileges win-win anddialogic approaches and provides experiential learning in simulations inwhich teams of students negotiate detailed and practicable outcomes forresolving contemporary organizational and societal problems.CO 0528 Professional Rhetoric and Presentations3 CreditsThis course focuses on developing and practicing written and oralpresentations for professional settings. Coursework includes reviewingstrategies and tactics for enhancing interpersonal and social influencethrough the development of sound reasoning skills, audience analysistechniques, use of source materials, effective extemporaneousdelivery, and the appropriate use of technological support within theorganizational setting. Additional applications are considered forscholarly, scientiﬁc, policy, and public arenas. The course requires thepreparation, practice, and critical assessment of several written and oralpresentations.CO 0530 Media Theory and Criticism3 CreditsThis course introduces graduate students in Communication to the studyof media in the US. It focuses on the major theoretical trajectories thathave shaped the ﬁeld, empirical research that has emerged as canonical,and contemporary critical approaches that inform not just how we studymedia as scholars, but also how we understand media as consumers.CO 0532 Nonproﬁt Media3 CreditsThis course focuses on public relations, advertising and marketingstrategies for nonproﬁt and public service organizations. The coursebegins with a broad overview of media industries and the changinglandscape of media technologies and then considers how nonproﬁtand other public service organizations can best leverage resources toeffectively communicate with intended audiences. Both theoreticaland practical, this course provides graduate students with historicalunderstandings of how media industries are organized and how notfor proﬁt organizations interface with proﬁt-driven media businesses.Special attention is paid to how social media platforms and other digitaltechnologies impact communication strategies.CO 0535 Globalization, Communication, and Culture3 CreditsGlobalization has produced the increased flow of goods, capital, people,knowledge, images, crime, pollutants, drugs, fashion, viruses, and beliefsacross territorial and ideological boundaries of all kinds. This courseis focused on organizational communication in a global economicenvironment and helps students prepare for cross-cultural managementissues, decision-making for multinational organizational effectiveness,and a consideration of global economic and labor issues.
CO 0537 New Media Studies3 CreditsThe digital and social media that have emerged in the past decadeare reshaping our world in profound ways - this course explores thosedevelopments in light of both extended history and the contemporarymoment. Through a mix of scholarly and journalistic readings, wewill inquire into the ways in which culture, community, and identityare undergoing change alongside marketing, politics, and the "mass"communication industries. Our focus will include a wide variety of newmedia platforms, practices, and issues drawn from social networking,mobile, and online content, as we cultivate a critical lens on society'sincreasing digitalization (and its discontents.CO 0539 Advertising and Consumer Communication3 CreditsThis course takes a critical look at the intersection of consumer culture,advertising, marketing and communication. This course also considersthe history of advertising, marketing and public relations in the US asa starting point for better understanding of contemporary practicesin these ﬁelds. Central in this examination is a consideration of howrace, ethnicity, gender and sexuality often map (and are mapped onto)speciﬁc consumption patterns. Further, this course examines howadvertising and related communication practices happen within aspeciﬁc political-economic environment and how technology is quicklychanging how theory translates into practice in these ﬁelds. Whileadvertising, marketing and public relations are undoubtedly a part ofour consumer culture, this course is not exclusively about how to "do"these activities, but rather how these communication practices impactour culture. Finally this course will ask students to critically reflect onconsumption in terms of global, environmental and labor concerns.CO 0540 Intercultural Communication3 CreditsThis course examines the relationship between communicationbehavior and cultural factors such as nationality, ethnicity, race, gender,class, sexuality, and religion. We will focus on cross-cultural sense-making, relationships, problem-solving, and organizing with particularapplication to business, education, and health care encounters. Thecourse reviews the social science research of variations in normativecommunication behavior, as well as the theoretical approaches tounderstanding the relationship between worldview/cultural values andpreferred communication practices. Examples will be used from a varietyof nations, as well as those within the diverse cultural landscape ofcontemporary United States.CO 0545 Race, Identity, and Representation3 CreditsRooted in a constitutive approach to communication, this courseadvances the notion that identities are not bound within the self, butrather, are socially negotiated through communication practices and aresituated ﬁrmly in cultural and historical settings. Speciﬁcally, this courseexamines how racial identities emerge, reform, and are redirected throughdiscourse. In addition to exploring how racial categorizations are sociallyconstructed, this course attends to contemporary representations of racewithin media, education, and health care systems. Further, students inthis course will interrogate social issues involving structural inequality,privilege, power, and hegemony.CO 0547 Healthcare Organizational Communication3 CreditsThis course examines the processes and complexities of modernhealthcare organizations (hospitals, nursing homes, insurers,associations, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers,non-proﬁts, marketing, advertising, and PR ﬁrms, provider educationinstitutions, etc.). The primary purpose of this course is to provide anunderstanding of how communication within, to, and from healthcareorganizations impacts the company, its employees, stakeholders,customers, federal and local governments, and U.S. healthcare delivery.This course will evaluate and explore the multidimensional processesutilized by healthcare organizations and how communication is criticalto their successes or failures and to the health and well being of theircustomers.CO 0548 Health Communication3 CreditsCommunicating to people about health has become oneof the mostactive areas of communication research and practice. This coursefocuses on the theory and practice of communication in health settings.Topics covered include doctor-patient communication, health campaigns,effects of media on health, intercultural issues in health communicationand risk communication in relation to health practices.CO 0559 Special Topics in Communication Research3 CreditsThis course is taught when a particular faculty member has a compellingproposal for a topic that has been approved by the department.Preference will be given to topics related to contemporary issues or to acurrent faculty research project.CO 0560 Thesis Proposal3 CreditsThis course operates as an independent study experience under thesupervision of a faculty advisor and the secondary supervision of oneadditional faculty reader. Each proposal and thesis should have a totalof two readers, the faculty advisor and one additional reader from theCommunication Department who has taught the student. At the student'srequest, a faculty member from another department who has taught thestudent in a graduate course could serve as a third reader. In unusualcircumstances (e.g., a conflict between the faculty advisor and thesecond reader) a third reader would be assigned by the Graduate ProgramDirector. The thesis will be orally presented to the faculty.CO 0561 Thesis Research3 CreditsThis course operates as an independent study experience under thesupervision of a faculty advisor and the secondary supervision of oneadditional faculty reader. Each proposal and thesis should have a totalof two readers, the faculty advisor and one additional reader from theCommunication Department who has taught the student. At the student'srequest, a faculty member from another department who has taught thestudent in a graduate course could serve as a third reader. In unusualcircumstances (e.g., a conflict between the faculty advisor and thesecond reader) a third reader would be assigned by the Graduate ProgramDirector. The thesis will be orally presented to the faculty.CO 0562 Continuing Thesis Research3 Credits
CO 0570 Project Proposal3 CreditsThis course operates as an independent study experience under thesupervision of a faculty advisor and the secondary supervision of oneadditional faculty reader. Each proposal and project should have a totalof two readers, the faculty advisor and one additional reader from theCommunication Department who has taught the student. At the student'srequest, a faculty member from another department who has taught thestudent in a graduate course could serve as a third reader. In unusualcircumstances (e.g., a conflict between the faculty advisor and thesecond reader) a third reader would be assigned by the Graduate ProgramDirector. The project will be presented to the faculty and should havesome kind of public presentation or impact.CO 0571 Independent Project3 CreditsThis course operates as an independent study experience under thesupervision of a faculty advisor and the secondary supervision of oneadditional faculty reader. Each proposal and project should have a totalof two readers, the faculty advisor and one additional reader from theCommunication Department who has taught the student. At the student'srequest, a faculty member from another department who has taught thestudent in a graduate course could serve as a third reader. In unusualcircumstances (e.g., a conflict between the faculty advisor and thesecond reader) a third reader would be assigned by the Graduate ProgramDirector. The project will be presented to the faculty and should havesome kind of public presentation or impact.CO 0572 Continuing Project3 CreditsCO 0598 Independent Study3 CreditsPrerequisites: Graduate Director's approval and a communication facultymember's sponsorship.This course allows students to thoroughly investigate communicationconcepts, theories, or issues presented in a previously completedgraduate communication course. Independent study does not substitutefor any other required course(s) in the graduate program and students'investigations must be scholarly in intent. An independent study may betaken only once.Computer Engineering (CR)CR 0245 Digital Design I3 CreditsCorequisite: CR 0245L.An introduction to computer hardware design. Topics include: digitaldesign principles, Boolean algebra, combinational logic design, sequentiallogic design, registers, counters, memory, multiplexers, ﬁnite statemachines, radix conversion, and programmable logic devices. Studentslearn to write, implement, and simulate elementary digital design.CR 0245L Digital Design I Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: CR 0245.This lab course covers the practical aspects of digital logic design.Students design and implement logic circuits using techniques taught inCR 0245. Students gain experience using state of the art design softwareand development boards, which use modern ﬁeld programmable gatearray (FPGA) technology.CR 0246 Digital Electronics Design II3 CreditsPrerequisite: CR 0245.This course examines computer architecture implemented using ahardware design language and programmable logic devices. Studentslearn the VHDL hardware description language, and learn to use moderndesign, simulation, and synthesis software. Students design, verify,build and test digital logic circuits using industry standard developmentboards, and ﬁeld programmable gate array (FPGA) technology.CR 0320 Computer Networks3 CreditsPrerequisites: CS 0131, MA 0351.This course covers principles of networking and network programming.Topics include OSI layers, elementary queuing theory, protocol analysis,multi-threading, command-line interpreters, and monitors. Students writea distributed computing system and check their performance predictionswith experiments.CR 0325 Computer Graphics3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131.This course supports the visualization and computer systems domain,offering an introductory treatment to two-dimensional and three-dimensional computer graphics concepts. Students write computergames and employ their knowledge to imbue them with realism. Highperformance rendering uses the latest in cutting edge hardware-accelerated graphics processors.CR 0331 Biomedical Signal Processing3 CreditsPrerequisites: CS 0131 or CS 0142 or SW 0407; MA 0146.This course presents an overview of different methods used inbiomedical signal processing. Signals with bioelectric origin are givenspecial attention and their properties and clinical signiﬁcance arereviewed. In many cases, the methods used for processing and analyzingbiomedical signals are derived from a modeling perspective based onstatistical signal descriptions. The purpose of the signal processingmethods ranges from reduction of noise and artifacts to extraction ofclinically signiﬁcant features. The course gives each participant theopportunity to study the performance of a method on real, biomedicalsignals.CR 0332 Biomedical Imaging3 CreditsPrerequisite: CR 0331.The course presents the fundamentals and applications of commonmedical imaging techniques, for example: x-ray imaging and computedtomography, nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound,and optical imaging. In addition, as a basis for biomedical imaging,introductory material on general image formation concepts andcharacteristics are presented, including human visual perception andpsychophysics.CR 0333 Biomedical Visualization3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131.This course is an introduction to 3-D biomedical visualization. Varioustechnologies are introduced, including UltraSound, MRI, CAT scans,PET scans, etc. Students will learn about spatial data structures,computational geometry and solid modeling with applications in 3-Dmolecular and anatomical modeling.CR 0346 Computer System Architecture3 CreditsPrerequisite: CR 0245.This course introduces the machine language and various components ofa computer hardware in modern computer systems. The course focuseson CPU, memory, bus, cache, I/O module, internal data representation,and instruction set design. It also covers pipelining, superscalararchitecture, reduced instruction set computers, parallel architectures,and interconnection networks.CR 0382 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course includes supervised reading and research. Available only bypre-arrangement with the instructor.
Computer Science (CS)CS 0101 Introduction to Computing3 CreditsThis course introduces the concept of computing to students with noprior computer experience. The main ideas of computing are exploredand students learn the most essential information about computers andtechnology in today's digital world and the latest computing trends andskills with live code exercises. Students will explore key ideas of codingat an introductory level. Topics include computer architecture, digitalmedia, network, web, big data, computer security, and basic computerprogramming.CS 0131 Fundamentals of Programming3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, ENPC Digital Journalism ProductionComponentThis course introduces the object-oriented programming. Topics includedata types, control structures, arrays, I/O, ﬁle handling, GUI, and theOOP concept of encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, packages,interfaces, and inner classes.CS 0231 Programming Workshop3 CreditsCorequisite: CS 0231L or CS 0231P.Prerequisite: CS 0131.This course covers advanced programming concepts in one or morecurrent programming languages, including syntax and theories. Itprepares students for adapting to various programming environmentsand coding in an efﬁcient manner. Lab work will accompany the course.CS 0231L Programming Workshop Lab1 CreditCorequisite: CS 0231.This lab accompanies the Programming Workshop course for hands-onpractice with course concepts.CS 0231P Programming Workshop PLG0 CreditsCorequisite: CS 0231.This peer learning group accompanies the Programming Workshopcourse for hands-on practice with course concepts.CS 0232 Data Structures3 CreditsCorequisite: CS 0232L or CS 0232P.Prerequisite: CS 0131.This course covers abstract data structures such as queues, stacks,heaps, linked lists, trees, graphs, hash tables and sorting. Students applydata structure concept in advanced programming.CS 0232L Data Structures Lab1 CreditCorequisite: CS 0232.This lab accompanies the Data Structures course for hands-on practicewith course concepts.CS 0232P Data Structures PLG0 CreditsCorequisite: CS 0232.This peer learning group accompanies the Data Structures course forhands-on practice with course concepts.CS 0250L Computer Science Sophomore Clinic1 CreditCorequisite: SW 0304.This sophomore clinic provides faculty guidance and supervision beyondthe scope of existing courses. Students learn how to develop andstructure their deliverables, as well as how to use computer science toolsin the context of real-world or research projects.CS 0331 Operating Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.This course introduces the internal operation of modern operatingsystems. The topics cover a brief history of operating systems, the majorcomponents of modern operating systems, and the object-orientedmethodology on UNIX-like platform. Various UNIX tools will be used in thecourse and participants study examples using object-oriented programsas well as large system integration by object-oriented methodology.CS 0342 Theory of Computation3 CreditsAttributes: MAEL Math Major Elective CoursePrerequisite: MA 0231.This course explores what computers can and can't do by examiningsimple mathematical models of computation. Topics include ﬁnite statemachines, regular expressions, non-determinism, pushdown automata,context-free grammars, and Turing machines. We will see that there arelimits to what computers can do, and in doing so, we will learn aboutwhat a computer really is; you may be surprised.CS 0343 Analysis of Algorithms3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.This course introduces various algorithms and analyzes the complexityand efﬁciency of the algorithms. Topics cover classic and heuristicalgorithms, searching, sorting and parsing techniques, and algorithmcomplexity analysis.CS 0354 Theory of Programming Languages3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.Topics in this course include the design of programming languages;organization, control structures, data structures; run time behaviorof programs; and formal speciﬁcation and analysis of programminglanguages. The course includes a comparative survey of severalsigniﬁcantly different languages.CS 0355 Artiﬁcial Intelligence3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.This course, which examines computer implementation of processes ofthought, includes knowledge representation, games, theorem proving,heuristics, symbolic techniques, neural networks, genetic algorithms, andartiﬁcial life.CS 0391 Cognitive Science Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131 or CS 0141.In this course, students explore the intersection of computation and suchdiverse ﬁelds as psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, and linguisticsin searching for an understanding of cognition, be it real or abstract,human, animal, or machine. How does the mind work? How do weacquire knowledge, represent that knowledge, and manipulate thoserepresentations? Can a computer be conscious? Are animals intelligent?CS 0397 Internship1-3 CreditsThe internship program provides computer science majors with anopportunity to gain practical, career-related experience in a variety ofsupervised ﬁeld settings. Internships can be in any one of a number ofareas, such as software applications or hardware applications. Internsspend a minimum of 10 hours per week in on-site work, complete arequired academic component speciﬁed by a faculty advisor, and satisfythe University Internship Policy requirements. Students may register forinternships during the summer session and/or one to two full semestersand may earn a maximum of six internship credits. Open to seniors only;requires approval of the ﬁeld placement supervisor and the School ofEngineering. An internship may not replace a computer science electiveto fulﬁll the requirement for a major in computer science.
CS 0398 Internship1-3 CreditsThe internship program provides computer science majors with anopportunity to gain practical, career-related experience in a variety ofsupervised ﬁeld settings. Internships can be in any one of a number ofareas, such as software applications or hardware applications. Internsspend a minimum of 10 hours per week in on-site work, complete arequired academic component speciﬁed by a faculty advisor, and satisfythe University Internship Policy requirements. Students may register forinternships during the summer session and/or one to two full semestersand may earn a maximum of six internship credits. Open to seniors only;requires approval of the ﬁeld placement supervisor and the School ofEngineering. An internship may not replace a computer science electiveto fulﬁll the requirement for a major in computer science.Counseling (CN)CN 0098 Comprehensive Exam in School Counseling0 CreditsThe Counselor Preparation Comprehensive Exam (CPCE) is astandardized multiple choice exam with 136 questions that requiresSchool Counseling candidates to demonstrate understanding andmastery of content reflecting the eight core CACREP areas. It is highlyrecommended that candidates complete their comprehensive examduring the semester prior to the one in which they plan to graduate.CN 0099 Comprehensive Exam in Clinical Mental HealthCounseling0 CreditsThe Counselor Preparation Comprehensive Exam (CPCE) is astandardized multiple choice exam with 136 questions that requiresClinical Mental Health Counseling candidates to demonstrateunderstanding and mastery of content reflecting the eight core CACREPareas. It is highly recommended that candidates complete theircomprehensive exam during the semester prior to the one in which theyplan to graduate.CN 0403 Seminar in Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course explores advanced topics in the ﬁeld of counselor education.Topics vary each term, are determined by the counselor educationdepartment chair, and reflect current trends and themes in the ﬁeld ofcounseling.CN 0410 Grief and Loss Counseling3 CreditsAn introductory course in the exploration of conceptual models andclinical interventions related to grief and loss. The focus of this courseis on developing sensitivity, knowledge, and practical skills working withgrief, bereavement, and end of life issues in counseling and cross-culturalapproaches. It is designed to inform students how loss is a pervasive,natural process of life and with skilled understanding and interventioncan provide healing, meaning, and transformation to self and others. Theimpact of religious and spiritual belief systems on bereavement, grief,and loss will be covered. Family interventions and conceptualizing griefand loss from a systems perspective will be discussed. This course is anadvanced graduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive, andaffective content and experiences.CN 0432 Clinical Mental Health Counseling: Management, Delivery, andEvaluation3 CreditsDesigned to familiarize candidates with the workings of community-based human service programs, this course focuses on organizationalstructure, agency goals and human resources, program development,needs assessment, grant writing, consultation roles, and programevaluation.CN 0433 Multicultural Issues in Counseling3 CreditsCandidates examine issues in counseling individuals and families fromdiverse ethnic, cultural, racial, and socioeconomic backgrounds anddiscuss the social, educational, economic, and behavioral factors thatimpact clinical work. The course addresses counseling men, women,and couples, and the issues of gender role stereotyping and changingsex roles, and integrates professional contributions from individualcounseling and family therapy literature.CN 0446 Spirituality and Counseling3 CreditsAn introductory course in the exploration of developmental modelsand clinical interventions related to the interface of spirituality andcounseling. The focus of this course is on developing knowledgeand practical skills in working with spiritual and religious issues incounseling. This course is an advanced graduate course that includesinterpersonal, interactive, and affective content and experiences.CN 0447 Lifespan Human Development3 CreditsThis course explores the processes of individual and family developmentfrom childhood through old age. Presenting theoretical perspectivesfor studying child, adolescent, adult, and family development, thecourse examines the modiﬁcation of family structures over time andpsychosocial development within family systems and cultural contexts.Crosslisted with FT 0447.CN 0454 Introduction to Counseling Children and Adolescents3 CreditsPrerequisites: CN 0447, CN 0500, CN 0553.This course provides an overview of theories and research pertinent tocounseling children and adolescents. Candidates examine factors thatpromote and hinder healthy human development and receive informationregarding assessment, counseling process, and evaluation processunique to working with children and adolescents. The course addressesmulticultural dynamics and identiﬁes issues relevant to divorce, grieving,and coping with crisis. Procedures include activities designed to helpcandidates conceptualize an ecosystemic framework for the counselingprocess.CN 0455 Group Work: Theory and Practice3 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0650.This course focuses on the broad methodology of group work andtheories and tasks in interpersonal and multicultural contexts.Candidates observe the nature of their interactions with others andenhance their knowledge about the nature of groups and the currenttheories and models. Understanding of group work with substanceabusers will be explored. This course is an advanced graduate coursethat includes interpersonal, interactive, and affective content andexperiences.CN 0457 Career Development: Theory and Practice3 CreditsFee: $55 GSEAP Lab FeeThis course explores theories of career development across the lifespanand applications used in practice. Career assessment tools, world of workinformation, and the career counseling process are included.CN 0465 Introduction to Substance Abuse and Addictions3 CreditsCandidates explore basic information about the history and current useand abuse of various drugs and alcohol. Topics include addiction, 12-step programs, physiological effects, FAS, COAs, and family systems,as well as culturally relevant prevention, intervention, and treatmentstrategies for individuals and families. This course is an advancedgraduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive, and affectivecontent and experiences. Crosslisted with FT 0465.
CN 0466 Substance Abuse Interventions3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0465.This course uses didactic and experiential techniques to understand andfacilitate interventions with substance abusers and their families. Topicsinclude the role of motivational counseling and techniques developed bythe Johnson Institute. This course is an advanced graduate course thatincludes interpersonal, interactive, and affective content and experiences.CN 0467 Assessment in Counseling3 CreditsFee: $55 GSEAP Lab FeePrerequisite: CN 0553.This course establishes an understanding of principles and proceduresassociated with standardized and non-standardized assessment incommunity and school settings. Candidates acquire skills necessaryfor conducting basic assessments and explore principles of diagnosis,individual, group, and environmental assessments. The course includesan overview of intelligence, attitude, interest, motivation, aptitude,achievement, personality, adjustment, and development; examines legal,ethical, and multicultural concerns; and presents considerations uniqueto individuals with special needs.CN 0468 Professional Issues in Counseling3 CreditsThis course provides an orientation to the counseling profession,including the history of professional counseling; professional identity; thesocial, economic, and philosophical bases of the profession; the majorlegal and ethical issues facing the profession; and current and futureissues and trends in counseling.CN 0500 Theories of Counseling and Psychotherapy3 CreditsThis course examines philosophical bases for counseling theory,ethical and professional issues, and various theories that contributeto the practice of professional counseling, including psychoanalytic,humanistic/existential, cognitive/behavioral, and systemic approaches.CN 0515 Trauma and Crisis Intervention3 CreditsThis course addresses current theory, research, and models relevantto trauma and crisis intervention. Speciﬁc focus will be placed onunderstanding the role of spirituality, across cultures, in counselingchildren, men, women, and families. In addition, skills essential forresponse to trauma while working with groups will be addressed.Conceptualization from a systems perspective will be addressed.Forgiveness, hardiness, resiliency, and the dynamics of violence, religiousand political, will be discussed. Emphasis will be placed on understandingthe role of spirituality while working with individuals and groups. Anoverview of the affective, behavioral, cognitive, and neurological sequelaein response to trauma and crisis will be discussed, with emphasis onskills essential for crisis intervention, including assessment of safetyand security concerns, triage, lethality, mass disaster, death notiﬁcation,suicide, murder, and natural disaster. In addition, models essential for thecare of the caregiver will be identiﬁed. The course's instructional formatwill combine experiential, demonstration, and discussion methods.Active learning is essential to continued development. This course is anadvanced graduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive, andaffective content and experiences.CN 0520 Spiritual Interventions: Tools for Competent Practice3 CreditsPrerequisites: CN 0446, CN 0553.Spiritual interventions tap into the affective domain and providecounselors and clients with the opportunity to explore their creativity,self-expression, and drive to be fully human. This course will allowcounselors to learn the therapeutic beneﬁts and process of usingspiritual interventions in counseling that inform the process ofhealing and transformation. Interventions will include mindfulnessmeditation, creating mandalas, and guided imagery. Counselors willlearn competencies for effective use of integrating spirituality into thecounseling process, conceptualizing from a systems perspective andexplore several spiritual interventions to enhance self-awareness andimprove their ability to be present and attend to their clients. This courseis an advanced graduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive,and affective content and experiences.CN 0524 Domestic Violence in Nicaragua3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0553.The course is designed to provide students with an opportunity to workoutside of the country in Nicaragua. Speciﬁcally, students will work withgroups of women from two rural villages on issues of gender equality andviolence against women. The course is structured such that students willbe required to meet throughout the summer, learning about Nicaraguanculture and laws, and designing a training program. Students will thentravel to Nicaragua and provide training. This course is open only tostudents matriculated in the Counselor Education program.CN 0525 Spirituality and Wellness3 CreditsThis course provides a holistic approach to wellness integrating mind,body, and spirit interventions into the counseling process. An overview ofwellness models, assessment tools, and spiritual practices as strengthresources will be explored. Students will explore lifespan and crosscultural influences on wellness. Development of wellness and preventionplans and research on health and spirituality will be a focus. This courseis an advanced graduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive,and affective content and experiences.CN 0531 School Counseling: Procedures, Organization, andEvaluation3 CreditsThis course provides candidates with the information necessary toapply basic counseling knowledge and skills in a school setting. TheAmerican School Counseling Association (ASCA) and Connecticut schoolcounseling models are presented, and issues pertinent to working in theschool system are explored.CN 0533 Advanced Multicultural Counseling Strategies andSkills3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0433, CN 0553.This course provides in-depth opportunities for students to deepen andexpand their multicultural competencies and counseling skills for workingwith diverse belief systems and populations. Exploration of diversespiritual, religious, ethnic, and systemic belief systems will allow studentsto develop cross-cultural competencies and understanding of the impactof the cultural context on the therapeutic process. Topics included will bepedagogy of the oppressed, religious violence and trauma, refugee andimmigration concerns. This course is an advanced graduate course thatincludes interpersonal, interactive, and affective content and experiences.CN 0553 Counseling Relationships and Skills3 CreditsThis introductory course equips candidates with various techniquesof interpersonal communication and assessment, and reviews theirapplication in counseling. The course emphasizes role-playing with theuse of videotape and two-way mirror observation.
CN 0554 Group Facilitation3 CreditsPrerequisites: CN 0455, CN 0553.Candidates explore the dynamics of interpersonal relationships in alaboratory setting as participants and leaders in a group. The coursefocuses on identifying the structure and leadership of counseling groupsand analyzing the dynamics that render them therapeutic.CN 0555 Substance Abuse Counseling: Skills and Strategies3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 465 or a basic understanding of the addictions ﬁeld.This course focuses on learning, practice and developing counselingskills and strategies as it relates to substance abuse counseling. Anoverview of assessment, treatment planning, relapse prevention andrecovery will be explored. The course addresses theories that arefundamental to addiction counseling with emphasis on the relationshipbetween theory and the practice of effective skills. Candidates willreflect on their roles as counselors and deﬁne the qualities, knowledgeand essential skills to becoming a competent, ethical, culturally awarecounselor in training speciﬁc to the treatment of substance abuse. Thiscourse is an advanced graduate course that includes interpersonal,interactive, and affective content and experiences.CN 0557 Co-occuring Disorders in Substance Abuse and AddictionsCounseling3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0465.This course will introduce students to major concepts in the treatmentof co-occurring substance use disorders and mental health disorders.Students will develop an awareness of the unique challenges thatface clients who are struggling with multiple diagnoses. Students willpractice conducting assessments, recovery plans, counseling skills andcontinuum of care issues relevant to the recovery process for this specialpopulation. Combines didactic and experiential learning opportunities.This course is an advanced graduate course that includes interpersonal,interactive, and affective content and experiences.CN 0558 Counseling Practicum3 CreditsPrerequisites: Matriculation in Counselor Education, completion of corerequirements, and practicum review.Candidates develop their individual, group, and consultation skills inthis course through placement in a counseling setting, while receivingindividual and group supervision on campus weekly. Participationrequires audio recording at the practicum site for supervision anddemonstration of diagnosis and treatment planning skills. Additionalrequirements include 100 clock hours, including 40 direct service hours.Candidates may repeat this course once for credit.CN 0565 Substance Abuse and the Family3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0465.This course brings together substance abuse studies and family systemsapproaches. Students are presented with a knowledge base of skills andmethods for assessing and treating family systems. The course identiﬁesthe addictive and intergenerational patterns within families. Students areencouraged to reflect upon the theoretical frameworks to understand andcreate interventions for alcoholic and substance-abusing family systems.Relational clinical models including developmental, systemic, solution-focused, and narrative approaches are reviewed and evaluated. Thecourse examines the history and methods of treatment models. Issuesof social justice are emphasized in a review of socio-cultural and socialpolicy that influence family behaviors and treatment. This course is anadvanced graduate course that includes interpersonal, interactive, andaffective content and experiences. Crosslisted with FT 0566.CN 0566 Research Methodology3 CreditsThis course covers statistical procedures and research design forthe consumer of human services research, with an emphasis onprogram evaluation, understanding the inferential potential of statisticalprocedures, and evaluating published research. Candidates focus onresearch in their respective disciplines (school counseling, family therapy,etc).CN 0585 Introduction to Clinical Supervision3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0558 or permission of instructor.Intended for post-master's degree practitioners in counseling, marriageand family therapy, psychology, or social work, who are engaged in thepractice of clinical supervision or preparing to become supervisors, thiscourse covers major conceptual approaches to supervision, supervisionmethods, evaluation of supervisees, ethical and legal issues, andadditional variables that affect supervision. The course offers experientialcomponents to supplement didactic material.CN 0590C Internship: Clinical Mental Health Counseling3-6 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0558.In clinical mental health counseling setting placements consistent withtheir career goals, candidate interns receive individual supervision.University faculty conduct weekly group supervision on campus thatincludes an emphasis on clinical work, prevention, and consultation, aswell as professional issues related to practice. Internship requirementsinclude 600 clock hours, including 240 direct service hours. Candidatesarrange their internships with the assistance of the clinical coordinator.CN 0590S Internship: School Counseling6-12 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0558.In elementary, middle, and/or secondary school setting placements,candidate interns receive individual supervision. University facultyconduct weekly group supervision on campus that includes an emphasison clinical work, prevention, and consultation, as well as professionalissues related to practice. Internship requirements include 600 clockhours, including 240 direct service hours. Candidates make theirinternship arrangements with the assistance of the clinical coordinator.CN 0591C Continuing Clinical Mental Health Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: CN 0590C.This course is a continuation of CN 0590C. Faculty conduct weekly groupsupervision on campus that includes an emphasis on clinical work,prevention, and consultation as well as professional issues related topractice. This continuation course ensures that interns complete therequired 600 clock hours including 240 direct service hours.CN 0595 Independent Study3-6 CreditsCandidates undertake individual projects in consultation with a facultymember, based on proposals submitted one semester in advance.Economics (EC)EC 0011 Introduction to Microeconomics3 CreditsThis course analyzes the behavior of individual consumers and producersas they deal with the economic problem of allocating scarce resources.The course examines how markets function to establish prices andquantities through supply and demand, how resource costs influenceﬁrm supply, and how variations in competition levels affect economicefﬁciency. Topics may include antitrust policy, the distribution of income,the role of government, and environmental problems. The course includescomputer applications.
EC 0012 Introduction to Macroeconomics3 CreditsThis course develops models of the aggregate economy to determinethe level of output, income, prices, and unemployment in an economy.In recognition of the growing importance of global economic activity,these models incorporate the international sector. The course examinesand evaluates the role of public economic policy, including ﬁscal andmonetary policy. Topics may include growth theory and price stability.The course includes computer applications.EC 0112 Economic Aspects of Current Social Problems3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectiveThis course uses a policy-oriented approach to study contemporaryeconomic issues. Topics include government spending, the role offederal budgets in solving national problems, poverty, welfare, socialsecurity, population, the limits to growth controversy, pollution, energy,and regulation.EC 0114 The Economics of Race, Class, and Gender in the AmericanWorkplace3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedThis course examines the impact of race, class, and gender differenceson decisions made in households and in the workplace. It begins withan in-depth analysis of labor supply decisions and responsibilities ofhouseholds, moving to an examination of labor demand decisions andwage-rate determination. The course reviews applications of theoreticalpredictions as they relate to important public policy issues such as childand elder care, social security, pay equity, the glass ceiling, afﬁrmativeaction, sexual harassment, and poverty.EC 0120 Environmental Economics3 CreditsAttributes: EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, EVSS EnvironmentalStudies: Social Science, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityThis course, which presents an overview of the theory and empiricalpractice of economic analysis as it applies to environmental issues, ﬁrstestablishes a relationship between the environment and economics.It then develops the concept of externalities (or market failures) andthe importance of property rights before exploring the valuation of non-market goods. It examines the practice of beneﬁt-cost analysis and offerseconomic solutions to market failures, while highlighting pollution controlpractices, especially those based on incentives. Throughout, the courseexamines current issues regarding environmental protection around theglobe.EC 0140 Health Economics3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceThis course begins by applying microeconomic theory to the healthsector of the U.S. economy. The U.S. experience will be generalized toglobal health issues and alternative health care systems. Topics includethe demand for health care and health insurance, managed care and therole of government, physician compensation, and specialty choice, therole of nurses and other healthcare professionals, the hospital sector, andmedical cost inflation.EC 0150 Media Economics3 CreditsThis course analyzes the operation and consumption of the music,television, and entertainment industries within a microeconomicframework. Students will learn what forms of competition drive theproduction and distribution of media in the context of a changingtechnical environment. Theories of different media market settings willbe illustrated and then concepts reinforced by real-world examples,including the changing operation of music production and distributionas the internet evolves, and the ways in which current media companiesintegrate seemingly different products. To explain these processesthe topics of competition, pricing, industry structures, and regulatoryenvironments will be explored.EC 0152 Economics of Sport3 CreditsThis course develops and examines the tools and concepts of economicanalysis as they apply to the sports industry. Topics in professionalsports include free agency, salary cap, and new franchises. The coursealso explores economic issues and institutional structures of sportssuch as golf and tennis, and the broader industry including the NationalCollegiate Athletic Association, sports equipment, advertising, minorleagues, and the Olympics. Students gain an increased understandingof how economics affect them through this combination of sports andeconomics.EC 0185 Regional Economic Development3 CreditsThis course includes two key components: a theoretical examination ofthe basic theories of regional economic development such as growthpoles, spillovers, infrastructure requirements, and center-peripheryanalysis; and an application of these theories to a speciﬁc economicissue. Students participate in a comprehensive study of a signiﬁcanteconomic issue facing a Connecticut community, in cooperation with aregional agency, resulting in detailed analysis of the issues and potentialsolutions. Fieldwork is required.EC 0204 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0011.This course builds upon and expands the theoretical models of EC 0011.The course introduces indifference curves to explain consumer behavior;short- and long-run production functions, showing their relationshipto product costs; and the efﬁciency of various competitive marketstructures. Topics include marginal productivity theory of incomedistribution, monopoly, and general equilibrium theory.EC 0204L Intermediate Microeconomic Theory Lab1 CreditCorequisite: EC 0204.In this lab, students actively engage in the science of economics.Activities include lectures on mathematical methods, advanced problem-solving projects, collaborative teamwork experiences, and computersimulations. Note: This lab is required of all students pursuing the BS ineconomics; it is optional for students earning the BA.EC 0205 Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0012.This course, which includes computer applications, analyzes thedetermination of national income and output; ﬁscal and monetary tools;and growth, inflation, and stabilization policies.EC 0205L Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory Lab1 CreditCorequisite: EC 0205.In this lab, students actively engage in the science of economics.Activities include lectures on mathematical methods, advanced problem-solving projects, collaborative teamwork experiences, and computersimulations. Note: This lab is required of all students pursuing the BS ineconomics; it is optional for students earning the BA.
EC 0210 Money and Banking3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business ElectivePrerequisite: EC 0012.This course covers the commercial banking industry, the money market,Federal Reserve operations and policy making, and monetary theory.EC 0224 Labor Economics and Labor Relations3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012.Nearly 70 percent of income earned in the United States is a return tolabor. This course applies the fundamentals of microeconomic andmacroeconomic analysis to important decisions that people make inlabor markets. From an employee's perspective, questions include:Should I work in exchange for a wage? If so, how much? How will mywork affect my lifestyle and family decisions? Should I go to school toimprove my skills? From an employer's perspective, questions include:Should I hire workers? If so, how many? How should I pick workers out ofa pool of applicants? What techniques should I use to provide incentivesfor these workers? Many of the answers to these questions requirecomplex analysis and an understanding of the impact of governmentpolicy on the workplace. The course explores a variety of public policyissues such as minimum wage programs, government welfare programs,workplace regulatory requirements, Title IX, immigration, and the unionmovement.EC 0225 Environmental Economics3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, EVSS Environmental Studies: SocialScience, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0120.This in-depth examination of the economic tools used in environmentaleconomics and policymaking builds on basic environmental economicconcepts and provides the opportunity to put those concepts intopractice. The course explores common externalities and market failuresin the United States and analyzes governmental policies used to controlthem.EC 0230 Comparative Economic Systems3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EC 0011 or EC 0012.Is communism dead? Is capitalism the only real economic system left?This course explores the various economic systems that are used todistribute resources, i.e., to decide "who gets what" in a nation's economy.The course considers the differences between alternative distributionmechanisms, what it means to transition from one system to another,and how these economic decisions are affected by political and nationalrealities. Because there are so many international alternatives to beexplored, each semester focuses on an economic region of the globe:Asia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, Africa, or Latin America. Thiscourse, where appropriate, is available for credit in international studiesor area studies programs.EC 0231 International Trade3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0011.This course covers international trade theory, U.S. commercial policy(tariffs, quotas), common markets, trade with and among developingnations, balance of payments disequilibria, and multinational enterprises.EC 0233 International Economic Policy and FInance3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0012.This course explores international ﬁnancial relations. Topics includethe international monetary system, exchange rate systems, balance ofpayments adjustment mechanisms, and changes in international ﬁnancerelations. It treats theoretical concepts and considers governmentalpolicy approaches to the various problems.EC 0235 Economic Development of Third World Nations3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012.This course considers the nature and causes of problems facing low-income nations, with a focus on the impact that various economicpolicies have on promoting economic development.EC 0250 Industrial Organization and Competitive Strategy3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0011.Using microeconomic theory, this course examines the economicbehavior of ﬁrms and industries, identifying factors affectingthe competitive structure of markets and using these structuralcharacteristics to evaluate the efﬁciency of resource use. Topics includemergers, measures of concentration, pricing, entry barriers, technologicalchange, and product development.EC 0252 Urban Economics3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012.This course analyzes the development of modern urban areas byapplying the tools of economic analysis to their problems. Topicsinclude transportation, housing, and the provision and ﬁnancing of publicservices.EC 0270 Engineering Economics3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0011.Engineering projects must be analyzed based upon their technicalsoundness, but also upon their ability to attract investment dollarsin a market economy. This course prepares engineering students toapply microeconomic, ﬁnance, and statistical methods as they analyzethe economic feasibility of projects. Students will learn about capitalbudgeting, risk and uncertainty, demand analysis, production and costmodeling, and linear programming. They will apply Excel and othercomputer-based simulations to analyze data. The goal of the course isultimately to provide the student with the economic decision-makingskills he or she needs to plan, design, and ﬁnance engineering projects.EC 0276 Public Finance3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012.This course examines government expenditure and tax policies with anemphasis on evaluation of expenditures; the structure of federal, state,and local taxes; and the budget as an economic document.EC 0278 Economic Statistics3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012.This course introduces students to descriptive statistics, probabilitytheory, discrete and continuous probability distributions, samplingmethods, sampling distributions, interval estimation, and hypothesistesting. A weekly lab provides opportunities for active exploration andapplication of course concepts.EC 0278L Economic Statistics Lab1 CreditCorequisite: EC 0278.In this lab, students actively engage in the science of statistics. Activitiesinclude lectures on mathematical methods, advanced problem-solvingprojects, collaborative teamwork experiences, and computer applicationsappropriate to statistical analysis. Note: This lab is required of allstudents pursuing the BS in economics; it is not required for studentsearning the BA.
EC 0290 Mathematical Economics3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012, MA 0016.This course applies mathematical models and concepts to economicproblems and issues. Mathematical techniques include calculus andmatrix algebra. Economic applications include the areas of consumertheory, theory of the ﬁrm, industrial organization, and macroeconomicmodeling.EC 0298 Independent Study1-3 CreditsFor economic majors only, this course is open to seniors by invitation ormutual agreement with the instructor.EC 0299 Internship3 or 4 CreditsStudents, placed in a professional environment by the department, useeconomic and analytical skills acquired from their courses in a non-academic job setting. Students submit a written assignment detailingtheir internship experience to a faculty sponsor by the end of the term.Enrollment by permission only.EC 0320 Financial Markets and Institutions3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0210.Topics include capital markets, ﬁnancial intermediaries, equities, bonds,options, futures, security analysis, portfolio theory, and the efﬁcientmarkets hypothesis. Students manage a hypothetical portfolio and use acomputer model.EC 0380 Econometrics3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012; EC 0278 or MA 0217.This course introduces students to the process used to formulatetheories of economic behavior in mathematical terms and to test thesetheories using statistical methods. The course discusses the techniqueand limitations of econometric analyses as well as methods availablefor overcoming data problems in measuring quantitative economicrelationships.EC 0397 Microeconomics Seminar3 CreditsThis seminar seeks to familiarize participants with recent developmentsin the discipline and sharpen research skills. Students complete aresearch project concerning a topic of their choice. The course includescomputer applications. Enrollment by permission only.EC 0398 Macroeconomics Seminar3 CreditsThis seminar seeks to familiarize participants with recent developmentsin the discipline and sharpen research skills. Students complete aresearch project concerning a topic of their choice. The course includescomputer applications. Enrollment by permission only.Education (ED)ED 0200 Explorations in Education: Introduction to Teaching, Learning,and Schooling3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityIn this course, students/candidates discover how education isaccomplished in schools through the social construction of teachingand learning. Through participant observation, service learning,reflections, assigned readings, class discussions and collaboration,candidates contribute positively to student learning in local schools andcommunities with diverse (socioeconomic, linguistic, race/ethnicity)populations, understand the complexities of schooling from multipleinsider perspectives, and engage in the process of discerning whetherto pursue a career in education. Successful completion of this course isone of the prerequisites for admission to the teacher education program.Approximately 25 hours of service in a local school is required.ED 0241 Educational Psychology3 CreditsThis course considers a particular application of the more importantpsychological principles to educational theory and practice, embracinga systematic study of the educable being, habit formation, phases oflearning, intellectual and emotional growth, and character formation.The course, which includes a 15-hour ﬁeld experience in an approved,ethnically diverse public school setting, also examines individualdifferences, transfer of training, interest, attention, and motivation insofaras they influence the teaching process.ED 0329 Philosophy of Education: An Introduction3 CreditsThis course applies the basic concepts of philosophy to education ingeneral and to contemporary education theory in particular to acquainteducators with philosophical terminology, to improve the clarity oftheir thinking, and to encourage personal commitment to their ownlife philosophies. It also provides the opportunity to ask fundamentalquestions about the aims and purposes of education and schoolingin a multicultural democratic society; the ethical dimensions of theteaching/learning relationship; the effects of poverty and injustice onthe lives of young people, their families and communities; and the roleof the imagination in transforming the world. A range of philosophicalperspectives will be explored including Jesuit Education/IgnatianPedagogy, Deweyan Progressive education, and Freirian CriticalPedagogy. This course includes an optional service learning experience inan approved, ethnically diverse school setting.ED 0350 Special Learners in the Mainstream3 CreditsThis course familiarizes the mainstream professional with the speciallearning needs of children and youth with intellectual and developmentaldisabilities, learning disabilities, emotional disturbances, severedisabilities, multiple disabilities, and those who are gifted and talented.Topics include methods of identifying and working effectively withchildren and youth with special learning needs in the regular classroom;the roles and responsibilities of counselors, psychologists, educators,and ancillary personnel as members of a multidisciplinary team inplanning educational services for exceptional learners; and laws thatimpact on assessment, placement, parent and student rights, andsupport services. This course may require a ﬁeldwork component as partof the evaluation process. Note: This course is not for those pursuingan initial certiﬁcate or cross-endorsement in special education; it is forgeneral educators and students in afﬁliated ﬁelds of study.ED 0369 Developmental Reading in the Secondary School3 CreditsTopics include methods and materials for improving reading and studyskills at the secondary level and the application of developmental readingskills in all curriculum areas.ED 0401 K-12 Teaching Internship Seminar for Initital CertiﬁcationCandidates1 CreditPrerequisite: Matriculated status in an initial educator certiﬁcation MA orSYC program in the Graduate School of Education and Allied Professions.This seminar is designed for pre-service teachers working as teachinginterns while pursuing a graduate degree. Candidates engage in thereflective practice and action of Ignatian pedagogy, connect theory andpractice, and develop an identity as educators for social justice andsocial responsibility. Seminar activities increase in sophistication as theteaching internships progress. Candidates must enroll in the seminarevery semester of their teaching internships. May not be used to fulﬁlldegree requirements.
ED 0402 Teaching Internship Seminar for Certiﬁed Teachers1 CreditPrerequisites: Connecticut teacher certiﬁcation or eligibility andmatriculated status in an advanced educator MA or SYC program in theGraduate School of Education and Allied Professions.In these sequenced seminars, designed for certiﬁed teachers working asteaching interns while pursuing a graduate degree, candidates engage inthe reflective practice and action of Ignatian pedagogy, connect theoryand practice, and build their professional portfolios as educators forsocial justice and social responsibility. Seminar faculty will spend timewith the teaching interns in their schools. Candidates must enroll inthe seminar every semester of their teaching internships; the seminaractivities increase in sophistication as the teaching internships progress.May not be used to fulﬁll degree requirements.ED 0403 Special Topics (Shell)1-3 CreditsThis course provides faculty and candidates the opportunity to exploreadvanced and/or timely topics in education. Guided by the foundationalpremises of the GSEAP conceptual framework, candidates developknowledge and culturally sensitive professional capacity with regard tothe speciﬁed topic through readings, class discussion, and authenticactivity, including advocacy. Topics may vary each semester andare determined by the Educational Studies and Teacher PreparationDepartment as a reflection of pertinent and timely themes that arenot otherwise covered in depth in existing courses. Upon facultyadvisement, candidates may take two special topics courses during theirmatriculation.ED 0405 Contexts of Education in the Primary Grades3 CreditsBased on current theory and practice in multicultural education,learning theory, child development, and class- room management, thiscourse provides the opportunity to learn about and design learningenvironments in which primary grade children thrive, build supportivelearning communities, and develop social conscience.ED 0429 Philosophical Foundations of Education3 CreditsDrawing on a range of philosophical perspectives, this foundationalcourse provides candidates with the opportunity to analyze criticallysome of the recurring themes in educational thought and connect themto the contemporary educational context. Fundamental questionsexamined include: the meaning of one's chosen vocation; the purposesof education and schooling in a democratic society; the ethicaldimensions of the teaching/learning relationship; and the role of thesocial imagination in transforming the world.ED 0431 Extending Literacy in the Elementary School: Grades3-63 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0437.This course explores the continuation of literacy development andlearning, with emphasis on content-area literacy development in thelater elementary grades. Guided by current research and practice inliteracy, pedagogy, human development, and multicultural education,candidates learn to assess and develop children's literacy strategies andskills, organize and facilitate group and individual learning in readingand writing, and design and carry out content-based curriculum tosupport continued literacy development and social responsibility. Thecourse addressed the integration of visual and performing arts andappropriate use of electronic technology, includes collaborative workwith cooperating teachers, and requires at least two hours per week ofﬁeldwork in priority school districts.ED 0437 Developing Literacy in the Elementary School: PrimaryGrades3 CreditsThis course explores developmental literacy, with an emphasis onprimary grades. Guided by current research and practice in literacy,pedagogy, human development, and multicultural education, candidatesassess and develop children's literacy strategies and skills; organizeand implement group and individual instruction in reading and writing;develop a technologically current, literate classroom environment;and design curriculum to support literacy development and socialresponsibility. Course requirements include: collaborative work with peersand cooperating teachers, an extensive case study, and at least two hoursper week of ﬁeldwork in a priority school district.ED 0441 Teaching and Learning within Multicultural Contexts ofEducation3 CreditsThis course explores and addresses the multifaceted aspects ofmulticultural education with the aim of engaging in a teaching-learningprocess where participants explore their commitment to the well-beingand learning of all students; develop a deep understanding of the needsof all students; develop strategies to promote caring, justice, and equityin teaching; learn to respect linguistic, racial, ethnic, gender, and culturaldiversity; investigate how students construct knowledge; demonstrate anunderstanding of the relationship between students' daily life experiencesand education; and critique systematic processes of discrimination thatmarginalize and silence various groups of students. Crosslisted withSL 0441.ED 0442 Educational Psychology3 CreditsDesigned to provide an understanding of the psychology of teachingand learning, this course emphasizes child and adolescent development,motivation techniques, teaching and learning theories, strategies forworking with culturally diverse student populations, student performancemonitoring and assessment, and current issues in educationalpsychology. Especially appropriate for those new to the profession, thiscourse helps participants develop insights into student behavior. Courserequirements include ﬁeld experience in a culturally diverse schoolsetting approved by the instructor for a minimum of 20 hours. Marriageand Family Therapy candidates require Dean's approval.ED 0447 Learning Mathematics in the Elementary Classroom3 CreditsIn accordance with the professional standards for teaching mathematics,this course emphasizes the important decisions a teacher makes inteaching: setting goals, selecting or creating a variety of appropriatemathematical tasks, supporting classroom discourse; integratingmathematics across the curriculum; assessing student learning; andcreating a supportive classroom environment. During this course,candidates explore the relevance of theory in the classroom. In addition,candidates investigate the development of speciﬁc concepts such ascomputation and geometry in elementary age children. Candidatesengage in adult-level mathematics activities designed to increasean understanding of mathematics, examine the latest research onhow children learn mathematics, and explore strategies for dealingwith diverse learners. Additionally, as socially responsible educators,candidates examine how mathematical practices and teaching methodsare influenced by underlying theoretical principles linked to history andthe position of the classroom teacher. Course requirements include on-site ﬁeldwork in an elementary school for a minimum of two hours perweek during the semester.
ED 0455 The Literate Learner: Using Critical and Strategic Literacy in theContent Areas, Grades 5-123 CreditsIn this course, designed for experienced and new middle and highschool educators, candidates explore and use cutting edge theoryand best practices in literacies to support powerful student learningacross curricular areas. Candidates learn a repertoire of research-basedstrategies and tools to help diverse learners to make meaning from avariety of texts in their subject area, including non-print and media texts.As reflective educators who advocate for equity and justice in education,candidates will infuse critical and strategic literacies into content areacurriculum and document their effect on student learning. Candidates notcurrently teaching will be expected to work with a teacher in a high needsschool for about 25 hours in order to complete this aspect of the course.ED 0459 Developmental Reading in the Secondary School3 CreditsThis course emphasizes enhancing reading comprehension in allcurricular areas at the secondary level. Current reading theory andresearch provide the framework for examining a variety of instructionalstrategies. Additional areas explored include questioning techniques,concept development, study strategies, and assessment.ED 0462 Science Methods3 CreditsThis course includes a comprehensive study of the principles, methods,and materials necessary for teaching science at the secondary level.Candidates explore effective elements of instruction as they relate topractical applications in the classroom. The course addresses teachingscience through course readings, lesson and unit plan design, andvideotaped mini-teaching sessions. This course includes a required ﬁeldservice component consisting of 20 hours of teaching with a practicingscience teacher. Enrollment by permission only. Requires submission of aresume, a one-page philosophy of education writing sample, a data form,and permission of the coordinator of Science Education.ED 0463 World Language Methods3 CreditsThis course includes a comprehensive study of the principles, methods,and materials necessary for teaching world language at the secondarylevel. Candidates explore effective elements of instruction as theyrelate to practical applications in the classroom. The course addressesteaching world language through course readings, lesson and unit plandesign, and mini-teaching sessions. This course includes a required ﬁeldservice component consisting of 10 hours of teaching with a practicinglanguage teacher. Enrollment by permission only. Requires submissionof a resume, a one-page philosophy of education writing sample, a dataform, and permission of the coordinator of World Language Education.ED 0464 Mathematics Methods3 CreditsThis course includes a comprehensive study of the principles, methods,and materials necessary for teaching mathematics at the secondarylevel. Candidates explore effective elements of instruction as theyrelate to practical applications in the classroom. The course addressesteaching mathematics through course readings, lesson and unit plandesign, and videotaped mini-teaching sessions. This course includesa required ﬁeld service component consisting of 10 hours of teachingwith a practicing mathematics teacher. Enrollment by permission only.Requires submission of a resume, a one-page philosophy of educationwriting sample, a data form, and permission of the coordinator ofMathematics Education.ED 0466 English Methods3 CreditsCandidates explore the organizational pattern in which English canbest be taught and analyze the effectiveness of various methodologyin bringing about changes in the language usage of young people. Thecourse considers such factors as appropriate curriculum materials,methods of organization, approaches to literature study, and proceduresmost cogent in the ﬁelds of grammar, composition, oral communication,and dialogue. The course addresses teaching English through coursereadings, lesson and unit plan design, and videotaped mini-teachingsessions. This course requires a ﬁeld service component consistingof 10 hours of teaching with a practicing English teacher. Enrollmentby permission only. Requires submission of a resume, a one-pagephilosophy of education writing sample, a data form, and permission ofthe coordinator of English Education.ED 0468 Social Studies/History Methods3 CreditsThis course combines theory, research and practice through acomprehensive application of the principles, methods, and materialsnecessary for teaching social studies/history at the secondary level.Candidates explore effective elements of instruction as they relate topractical applications in the classroom. The course addresses teachingsocial studies/history through course readings and resources, lessonand unit plan design, and videotaped mini-teaching sessions. This courseincludes a required ﬁeld service component consisting of 10 hours ofteaching with a practicing social studies/history teacher. Enrollmentby permission only. Requires submission of a resume, a one-pagephilosophy of education writing sample, a data form, and permission ofthe coordinator of Social Studies/History Education.ED 0493 Educational Imagination: Exploring Multicultural Identities &Curriculum in a Cross-Cultural Context3 CreditsThis course explores alternative approaches to education. Drawing on theworks of liberatory educators, such as Paulo Freire and Maxine Greene,as well as the arts and popular culture, this course provides the basis fordialogue on the transformative power of our imagination. This courseviews the teacher's role as one of empowering students to think criticallyabout themselves and their relation to education and a multiculturalsociety, and the student's role as one of active participation in thelearning process. Connecting theory, practice and personal experiencein useful and imaginative ways, we will, in the words of Maxine Greene,begin to see: schooling as it could be otherwise; teaching as it couldbe otherwise; learning as it could be otherwise; culture as it could beotherwise; the world as it could be otherwise.ED 0497 Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom3 CreditsThis course includes a comprehensive study of the principles, methods,and materials necessary for teaching science at the elementary level.Candidates explore effective elements of instruction as they relate topractical applications in the classroom. The course addresses teachingscience through readings, active participation in class activities, lesson/unit plan design and microteaching, class discussions, and individualreflections. Guided by current research and practice in science education,candidates in this course design science curricula for the elementarygrades that develop content knowledge, science inquiry skills, criticalthinking, problem solving, social responsibility, and technologicalcompetence. This course includes a required 20-hour ﬁeld component.
ED 0499 Introduction to Educational Research3 CreditsPrerequisite: At least six credits toward the MA degree.In this course, candidates develop critical perspectives on researchabout education. Guided by current theory and practice in educationalresearch, candidates reflect on ethical considerations of the researcheras well as the methodological tools that are used in educational research.Candidates are introduced to a wide range of qualitative and quantitativemethods, which they use in analyzing data and reviewing currenteducational research articles. Through discussions, candidates considerhow research can be a valuable tool that helps teachers systematicallyreflect on learning and teaching practices. During the course, candidatesconnect an area of interest with research methods as they developresearch paper proposals.ED 0501 Practicum for Literacy Teacher Consultants2 or 3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0561.The Practicum for Literacy Teacher Consultants will focus on thefollowing: research on literacy issues; exploration of best practices inthe teaching of literacy to all students; theory and practice of providingleadership for teachers who use reading, writing, and thinking in thecourses they teach. Students who successfully complete the Practicumwill become teacher/consultants for the Connecticut Writing Project:Fairﬁeld.ED 0510 Cultural and Political Geography3 CreditsCultural and political geography can be at once overlaid and in conflict.Geographer Bernard Nietschmann's analysis of indigenous "nationpeoples" conflicts with past and current political states describesmany of today's extant political conflicts. Within virtually every politicalstate, "multi-national" (i.e. multicultural) groups struggle for identity,independence, autonomy, territory, and rights. This course provides aframework for understanding the dual centrifugal and centripetal forcesacting on political states, the fragility of the notion of "nation-states,"sovereignty, boundary, alliances, cartels, and organizations of statesas functions of human cultural and political geography. Appropriatetechnologies and activities for 7-12 students are demonstrated.ED 0511 Educating for Social Responsibility and Civic Engagement: ACapstone Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisite: All other degree requirements.Drawing on contemporary educational theory and best practices, andinspired by the Jesuit educational goal of "forming men and women forothers," this capstone seminar is the culminating, integrative experiencefor approved candidates in the Master's in Teaching and Foundationsprogram for certiﬁed teachers and for the Master's in ElementaryEducation, and the Master's in Secondary Education. As participants ina community of learners, candidates demonstrate their capacities asreflective scholar-practitioners who synthesize program learnings toproduce an Integrative Master's Project. This capstone seminar exploresthe ways educational professionals can promote social responsibility intheir work with schools, communities, and families.ED 0512 Contemporary Schooling in Society3 CreditsCandidates investigate and discuss current issues important toeducation, seeking to understand the relationship between the systemicnature of particular issues and their speciﬁc manifestations in local,national, and global arenas. In addition, candidates identify the ways thatthey, as educators and as citizens, attend to these issues at the locallevel.ED 0515 Economic and Physical Geography3 CreditsEconomic geography is closely connected to physical geography -the central issue being uneven distribution of resources on a globalscale. These resources, be they natural, human or capital resources,constitute the economic interactions of not only nations, but of thepast, present, and future of human activities and planetary resourceand environmental issues. Therefore, issues of development, povertyand wealth, environmental concerns that will affect the lives of today'sstudents, their children, and their environment are addressed. Appropriatetechnologies and activities for 7-12 students are demonstrated.ED 0522 Learning and the Child's Experience3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0405 or ED 0437 or ED 0447 or ED 0497.Drawing from classic and current cross-disciplinary theory and practice,candidates in this course gain a comprehensive, culturally sensitiveknowledge of how children and young adolescents in the elementarygrades learn, think, and interact as social beings. Candidates considerthe development of individual children within the larger context ofeducational institutions. Beginning with an introduction of Piaget's andVygotsky's frameworks for the understanding of development, candidatesfurther explore constructivism and socio-historical cultural views oflearning as they consider the relevance of theory for teaching practices.ED 0529 Critical Literacies Beyond the Classroom Walls3 CreditsPrerequisites: Teaching certiﬁcation.Designed for K-12 teachers and community leaders, this course exploressocio-cultural and developmental models of how varied literacies areconstructed, understood and used in and outside schools in the UnitedStates. Through the design of extra-curricular and in-school projects andactivities for students, families and community members, candidatesin this course will recognize, value and employ culturally sensitiveunderstandings of literacies and their powerful role in our society.ED 0530 Assessment and Differentiated Instruction3 CreditsTeacher candidates in this course will become familiar with principlesand techniques necessary to plan, select, administer, interpret, andassess a differentiated range of student learning activities andinstructional methods. Candidates will learn to use traditional norm-referenced instruments, curriculum-based assessments, formalobservations, interviews, criterion-referenced assess-ments, and otheralternative assessments to guide differentiated planning and instruction.ED 0534 Theories of Learning3 CreditsThis course presents a detailed consideration of the positions on thenature and conditions of human learning found in the principal schools ofpsychology and in contemporary research. Crosslisted as PY 0534.ED 0540 Ethics and Advocacy in Educational Contexts3 CreditsThis course examines key ethical theories and their application inauthentic educational settings. Case studies of real and potential ethicaldilemmas are analyzed from a social justice advocacy perspective,highlighting the individual, professional and social dimensions of ethicalreasoning, decision-making and action.ED 0545 Developing Integrated Curriculum for Elementary Students:Inquiry and Action3 CreditsGuided by current research and practice in pedagogy, humandevelopment, and multicultural education, candidates in this coursedesign socially responsible, inquiry and action-oriented, interdisciplinarycurriculum units that develop content knowledge, inquiry tools,technological competence, social responsibility, and critical thinking.Fieldwork in local 3-6 classrooms required.Prerequisites: At least two ofthe following: ED 0437, ED 0447, ED 0497, ED 0531.
ED 0547 Leadership in Supporting Mathematics Learning in School andCommunity Settings3 CreditsIn accordance with the professional standards for teaching mathematics,this course provides certiﬁed elementary educators and candidatesfor cross-endorsement in elementary education opportunities to plan,design and carry out theoretically informed, developmentally appropriateand culturally responsive mathematics education for elementarystudents with varied learning needs. Candidates have the opportunityto take a leadership role in team planning, the design of responsibletest preparation, and in school and community-based opportunitiesfor students to explore mathematical concepts, skills, and strategies.Requirements include extensive teaching and team planning formathematics learning in an elementary school and/or community setting.ED 0552 Participatory Research and Advocacy in School and CommunitySettings3 CreditsPrerequisite: Matriculation and six completed credits in the MA programin Teaching and Foundations.This course is designed for certiﬁed teachers, community leaders andprofessionals from allied ﬁelds. Through engagement in authenticparticipatory projects in schools or community settings, and throughengagement with the literature on participatory research and advocacy,candidates in this course gain knowledge and competence in designingand implementing socially responsible research and advocacy projectswith and for students, clients and community members.ED 0559 Empowering Struggling Readers and Writers in the ElementaryGrades3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0437 or a current teaching certiﬁcation.In this course, elementary teacher candidates work to meet theliteracy learning needs of struggling learners. Under the guidance ofcertiﬁed literacy specialists, candidates assess learning needs, and,in collaboration with classroom teachers and appropriate specialists,provide instructional interventions for individuals or small groups ofstruggling readers and writers. A minimum of 25 hours of ﬁeldwork arerequired. Enrollment by permission only.ED 0561 Summer Institute in the Teaching of Writing4 CreditsThis institute is for experienced teachers, grades K-12, in all disciplines.Participants will become familiar with contemporary theory regardingall aspects of literacy with emphasis on composition theory. In addition,participants will explore best practices that extend theory into theclassroom. A primary focus for inquiry will be on language of studentsfor whom English is a second language and for low income students. Inaddition, participants will explore literary issues through their own writingand through independent research in an area of study that is appropriateto their professional needs. All participants who want advanced trainingas presenters and literacy leaders in Fairﬁeld and New Haven schooldistricts will be encourage to apply for the practicum following theinstitute.ED 0565 Principles of Curriculum Development and Evaluation3 CreditsCandidates examine the principles, problems, theories, and critical issuesin curriculum organization. The course emphasizes gaining practicalknowledge about curriculum development and improvement, with afocus on the identiﬁcation and systematic study of concerns and newdirections in curriculum development and improvement based on currentresearch and thought.ED 0572 Guided Research in Science3 CreditsWorking closely with both a science education and faculty member inPhysics, Chemistry or Biology (depending on licensure ﬁeld), scienceeducation candidates engage in a guided research project. Candidateslearn and use the most recent skills and tools of research in theircertiﬁcation area and demonstrate their ability to understand researchand successfully design, conduct, report, and evaluate investigations inscience. As part of their course requirements, candidates synthesize theirresearch in the form of a scientiﬁc paper and develop a unit of instructionthat integrates ﬁndings from their research and engages 7-12 students inthe processes of research in the ﬁeld.ED 0573 Instructional Issues in Teaching Science3 CreditsTeacher candidates seeking secondary science certiﬁcation must enrollin an advanced science methods course focusing on contemporaryissues in science education. This course will provide candidates with theopportunity to learn the conceptual foundations of current approaches toscience instruction and professional development especially as relatedto student learning at the secondary level. Contemporary issues centralto the course include but are not limited to: science education standards,science education reform efforts, equity in science education, teachingthrough inquiry and assessment strategies in science education. Thecourse will offer students opportunities for active learning and reflectionand the construction of new understanding regarding science teachingand learning. This course will also require students to take part in aresearch component focusing on a particular science education issue oftheir choice. They will begin a literature review and propose a researchproject which they may complete if they chose the Master's thesis option.ED 0575 Theory and Practice of Integrated Curriculum Design3 CreditsIn this course candidates explore theories of critical pedagogy designand teaching. They develop and implement differentiated, culturallysensitive inquiry and action-oriented interdisciplinary curriculum units.Candidates learn to develop students' content knowledge, inquiry tools,technological competence, social responsibility, and critical thinking.Current emphasis in this course is on integrating science, social studiesand health curricula. This is an advanced course for those alreadycertiﬁed or MA degree-only candidates.ED 0579 Directed Observations for Secondary DSAP Candidates: PartI3 CreditsThis is part one of a two-semester course designed for those candidatesworking in the public secondary schools under a DSAP. Each courseoffers a semester-long experience in a public secondary schoolfor qualiﬁed candidates. Participants engage in teaching ﬁve dayseach week. Emphasized concepts include classroom managementdynamics, teaching techniques, lesson plan organization, and facultyduties. Candidates receive assistance from their university supervisorwho observes and evaluates each candidate a minimum of threetimes. The instructor collaborates with the candidate to keep a line ofcommunication open with the mentor for the candidate and with thoseassigned to assess the candidate at the district level. District evaluationsare submitted to the instructor. Candidates must obtain permission totake this course from their program coordinator at the beginning of theprevious semester. Enrollment only by approval of the department andthe Dean.
ED 0580 Directed Observations for Secondary DSAP Candidates: PartII3 CreditsPrerequisites: ED 0579, completion of certiﬁcation course requirements,and all subject area requirements.This is part two of a two-semester course designed for those candidatesworking in the public secondary schools under a DSAP. Each courseoffers a semester-long experience in a public secondary schoolfor qualiﬁed candidates. Participants engage in teaching ﬁve dayseach week. Emphasized concepts include classroom managementdynamics, teaching techniques, lesson plan organization, and facultyduties. Candidates receive assistance from their university supervisorwho observes and evaluates each candidate a minimum of threetimes. The instructor collaborates with the candidate to keep a line ofcommunication open with the mentor for the candidate and with thoseassigned to assess the candidate at the district level. District evaluationsare submitted to the instructor. Candidates must obtain permission totake this course from their program coordinator at the beginning of theprevious semester. Open only to candidates who have been formallyaccepted into the Teacher Preparation program.ED 0581 Directed Observation and Supervised Student Teaching:Secondary Education6 CreditsPrerequisites: Formal acceptance into Teacher Preparation program andcompletion of all certiﬁcation course requirements.This course offers a semester-long experience in a local school forqualiﬁed candidates in secondary teaching. Participants engage inobservation and teaching ﬁve days each week. Emphasized conceptsinclude classroom management dynamics, teaching techniques, lessonplan organization, and faculty duties. Candidates receive assistance fromtheir university supervisors and the cooperating teacher(s), who mustobserve and evaluate each student. Candidates must register with thedirector of student teaching placement at the beginning of the previoussemester.ED 0583 Elementary Student Teaching: Immersion in a Community ofPractice6 CreditsThis course offers a stimulating semester-long experience in anelementary school classroom within a local priority school district.Under the guidance of university supervision and intensive mentoringby cooperating teachers, participants quickly assume full teachingresponsibilities, including curriculum and lesson planning anchoredin the principles of multicultural education and social responsibility,differentiated instruction, and effective organization and management,while carrying out other faculty duties, including participation in schoolgovernance and professional development. As educators for socialjustice and social responsibility, they engage in related school andcommunity-based activities with students, families, and communitymembers. Participants must register with the director of student teachingplacement at the beginning of the previous semester. Enrollmentrequires performance-based assessment including, but not limited to,successful completion of all prerequisite certiﬁcation track courses andrequirements while a matriculated candidate in the Elementary EducationMA program, permission of the elementary education program director,and an interview with the director of student teaching placements.ED 0584 Reflective Practice Seminar: Elementary Education3 CreditsParticipants take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teaching.Although much of the seminar's subject matter flows from the ongoingstudent-teaching experience, it deliberately addresses issues such associally responsible teaching, professional disposition and habits ofmind, teacher research, school governance, mandated Connecticuttesting, classroom management, conflict resolution, communicationwith parents/caregivers, sensitivity to multicultural issues, and specialeducation. The course stresses continued reflective practice andprofessional development, including development of a professionalportfolio, continued study and research, and establishing a supportivecollegial network.ED 0585 Supervised Teaching, Learning, and Reflection in a Communityof Practice: Part I3 CreditsThis course is the ﬁrst of a two-semester supervised experience designedfor candidates for whom traditional student teaching is not appropriatebecause they are currently teaching in an elementary school. Theevaluative tools used align with those used for student teaching andBEST assessment. In addition, the course incorporates monthly seminarmeetings. Although much of the seminar's subject matter flows fromthe ongoing teaching experience, it deliberately addresses issues suchas socially responsible teaching, professional disposition and habits ofmind, teacher research, school governance, classroom management,conflict resolution, communication with parents/caregivers, andsensitivity to multicultural issues and inclusion. Continued professionaldevelopment is stressed, including development of a professionalportfolio, continued study and research, and establishing a supportivecollegial network. Under the guidance of university supervision,teacher candidates assume full teaching responsibilities, includingcurriculum and lesson planning anchored in the principles of multiculturaleducation and social responsibility, differentiated instruction, andeffective organization and management, while carrying out other facultyduties, including participation in school governance and professionaldevelopment. As educators for social justice and social responsibility,they engage in related school and community-based activities withstudents, families, and community members. Enrollment requires state-approved waiver of student teaching; performance-based assessment,including but not limited to successful completion of at least 27prerequisite certiﬁcation track credits and related course requirementswhile a matriculated candidate in the Elementary Education MA program,and permission of the Elementary Education program director.
ED 0586 Supervised Teaching, Learning, and Reflection in a Communityof Practice: Part II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0585.This course is the second of a two-semester supervised experiencedesigned for candidates for whom traditional student teaching is notappropriate because they are currently teaching in an elementaryschool. Part one must be taken during the preceding semester. Theevaluative tools used align with those used for student teaching andBEST assessment. In addition, the course incorporates monthly seminarmeetings. Although much of the seminar's subject matter flows fromthe ongoing teaching experience, it deliberately addresses issues suchas socially responsible teaching, professional disposition and habits ofmind, teacher research, school governance, classroom management,conflict resolution, communication with parents/caregivers, andsensitivity to multicultural issues and inclusion. Continued professionaldevelopment is stressed, including development of a professionalportfolio, continued study and research, and establishing a supportivecollegial network. Under the guidance of University supervision, teachercandidates assume full teaching responsibilities including curriculum andlesson planning anchored in the principles of multicultural education andsocial responsibility, differentiated instruction, and effective organizationand management; while carrying out other faculty duties, includingparticipation in school governance and professional development. Aseducators for social justice and social responsibility, they engage inrelated school and community-based activities with students, familiesand community members.ED 0587 Directed Observation and Supervised Student Teaching I:Secondary Education3 CreditsPrerequisites: Completion of all certiﬁcation course requirements.This course is the ﬁrst of a two-course, 15-week supervised studentteaching experience in a local school, designed for secondary candidateswhose student teaching assignment spans two semesters. Candidatesengage in observation and teaching ﬁve days each week. Emphasizedconcepts include classroom managment dynamics, teaching techniques,lesson plan organization, and faculty duties. Candidates receiveassistance from their university supervisors and the cooperatingteacher(s), who also observe and evaluate each student. Candidatesmust register with the director of student teaching placement at thebeginning of the previous semester. Permission of Program Directorrequired. Open only to candidates who have been formally accepted intothe Teacher Preparation program.ED 0588 Directed Observation and Supervised Student Teaching II:Secondary Education3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0587.This course is the second of a two-course, 15-week supervised studentteaching experience in a local school, designed for secondary candidateswhose student teaching assignment spans two semesters. Candidatesengage in observation and teaching ﬁve days each week. Emphasizedconcepts include classroom management dynamics, teachingtechniques, lesson plan organization, and faculty duties. Candidatesreceive assistance from their university supervisors and the cooperatingteacher(s), who also observe and evaluate each student. Candidatesmust register with the director of student teaching placement at thebeginning of the previous semester. Permission of Program Directorrequired.ED 0589 English Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor during the ﬁrst semester of full-time teaching as a DSAP teacher. Theseminar supports English teacher candidates to enact best practices inEnglish education, helping them to select and review curricula, developlessons and assessments for diverse learners, and work with strugglingor difﬁcult students. Weekly discussions draw on the teaching issuesand problems faced by the English teacher candidates. The seminaralso addresses more general school issues, such as the culture andorganization schools, mandated Connecticut group-wide testing,classroom management, conflict resolution, communication with parentsand caregivers, sensitivity to multicultural issues, and issues of inclusion.The job application process, including resume writing, interviewing skills,and developing a professional portfolio and teaching portfolio, are alsoaddressed. Candidates receive information on the certiﬁcation process.ED 0590 Reflective Research Practicum in Teaching3 CreditsParticipants solve a practical problem in classroom teaching by applyingeducational research to a speciﬁc school situation.ED 0591 Mathematics Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor during the ﬁrst semester of full-time teaching as a DSAP teacher.The seminar supports mathematics teacher candidates to enact bestpractices in mathematics education, helping them to select and reviewcurricula, develop lessons and assessments for diverse learners, andwork with struggling or difﬁcult students. Weekly discussions draw onthe teaching issues and problems faced by the mathematics teachercandidates. The seminar also addresses more general school issues,such as the culture and organization schools, mandated Connecticutgroup-wide testing, classroom management, conflict resolution,communication with parents and caregivers, sensitivity to multiculturalissues, and issues of inclusion. The job application process, includingresume writing, interviewing skills, and developing a professionalportfolio and teaching portfolio, are also addressed. Candidates receiveinformation on the certiﬁcation process.ED 0592 Science Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor during the ﬁrst semester of full-time teaching as a DSAP teacher. Theseminar supports science teacher candidates to enact best practicesin science education, helping them to select and review curricula,develop lessons and assessments for diverse learners, and work withstruggling or difﬁcult students. Weekly discussions draw on the teachingissues and problems faced by the science teacher candidates. Theseminar also addresses more general school issues, such as the cultureand organization schools, mandated Connecticut group-wide testing,classroom management, conflict resolution, communication with parentsand caregivers, sensitivity to multicultural issues, and issues of inclusion.The job application process, including resume writing, interviewing skills,and developing a professional portfolio and teaching portfolio are alsoaddressed. Candidates receive information on the certiﬁcation process.
ED 0593 World Language Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor during the ﬁrst semester of full-time teaching as a DSAP teacher.The seminar supports world language teacher candidates to enact bestpractices in world language education, helping them to select and reviewcurricula, develop lessons and assessments for diverse learners, andwork with struggling or difﬁcult students. Weekly discussions draw onthe teaching issues and problems faced by the world language teachercandidates. The seminar also addresses more general school issues,such as the culture and organization schools, mandated Connecticutgroup-wide testing, classroom management, conflict resolution,communication with parents and caregivers, sensitivity to multiculturalissues, and issues of inclusion. The job application process, includingresume writing, interviewing skills, and developing a professionalportfolio and teaching portfolio, are also addressed. Candidates receiveinformation on the certiﬁcation process.ED 0594 Social Studies/History Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor during the ﬁrst semester of full-time teaching as a DSAP teacher. Theseminar supports social studies/history teacher candidates to enact bestpractices in social studies/history education, helping them to select andreview curricula, develop lessons and assessments for diverse learners,and work with struggling or difﬁcult students. Weekly discussionsdraw on the teaching issues and problems faced by the social studies/history teacher candidates. The seminar also addresses more generalschool issues, such as the culture and organization schools, mandatedConnecticut group-wide testing, classroom management, conflictresolution, communication with parents and caregivers, sensitivityto multicultural issues, and issues of inclusion. The job applicationprocess, including resume writing, interviewing skills, and developinga professional portfolio and teaching portfolio, are also addressed.Candidates receive information on the certiﬁcation process.ED 0595 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course requires self-selected activity by qualiﬁed candidates underfaculty supervision. Options include ﬁeld studies or library research within-depth study of a problem for a speciﬁed time. Each candidate submitsa preliminary proposal, detailed research design, and a comprehensivereport and evaluation. The course requires frequent consultation with thefaculty advisor.ED 0599 Professional Writing Seminar: Product of Learning1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of student teaching.During this seminar, candidates complete a self-designed Productof Learning. Under advisement of the program faculty, candidatesproduce a learning outcome that relates directly to their future workas an educator (i.e., design an elective course in their ﬁeld, submita manuscript for publication, deliver a presentation at a regional ornational conference, etc. Math candidates must complete the problem-solving portfolio for their product. Consult with advisor for information)Candidates are expected to develop authentic educational products,with the expectation that candidate-generated products will becomecontributions to the candidate's specialty area (i.e., English Education,Social Studies Education, etc). The process for this product will besupported in a 10-hour writing seminar course that, with substantialindependent work, would be supervised by faculty editorial and revisioninput toward the development of worthy professional products. Studentswill be encouraged to work alongside peers who are also completing theProduct of Learning.Educational Technology (MD)MD 0300 Introduction to Educational Technology3 CreditsThis course covers the principles and applications of technology literacyin education. Topics include designing effective teaching strategies andenvironments conducive to learning; application of media and computertechnologies in teaching; the use of the Web in teaching K-12; MicrosoftOfﬁce applications; developing home pages; evaluating software; andexamining new technologies for education. A ﬁeld experience is includedin this course.MD 0400 Introduction to Educational Technology3 CreditsThis foundational course offers a hands-on overview of effective teachingmethods using digital technologies. Candidates will gain understandingof the potential applications of educational technology in schools,organizational settings, and higher education. The course developscandidates' skills in using digital technologies to design and implementeffective learning environments for students from diverse academic andsocial backgrounds.MD 0401 Special Topics in Educational Technology (Shell)3 CreditsThis course explores contemporary issues in educational technology.Topics vary from semester to semester and will be chosen by facultyto address issues of current relevance that are not addressed in othercourse offerings.MD 0403 The School Library I3 CreditsThis course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, provides anintroduction to the current policies and practices of effective schoollibrary programs. Candidates will examine the professional skills,dispositions and responsibilities related to the roles of the school librarymedia specialist as deﬁned in AASL standards: instructional partner,teacher, information specialist, program administrator and technologyleader. Previously MD 0403A.MD 0404 The School Library II3 CreditsThis course, a continuation of the material presented in MD 0403,provides an introduction to the current policies and practices of effectiveschool library programs. Candidates will examine the professional skills,dispositions and responsibilities related to the roles of the school librarymedia specialist as deﬁned in AASL standards: instructional partner,teacher, information specialist, program administrator and technologyleader. Previously MD 0403B.MD 0405 Management of School Library Resources for Teaching andLearning3 CreditsThis course provides candidates with hands-on experience in managingprint and digital resources. Topics include: approaches to supportingcurriculum through collection development; strategies for purchasing andacquisition of databases, books, and multimedia materials; catalogingand creating MARC records to provide effective access. Each candidatewill create a fully functioning circulation/catalog system complete withoverdue books, statistics reporting, reserve and temporary items andspecial collection groups. Recent trends in web-based access to libraryresources will be explored.MD 0406 Introduction to Reference3 CreditsCandidates will explore print and online resources, and developcompetency in selecting, acquiring and evaluating resources to meetstudent needs. Course activities will emphasize communication skills andinstructional strategies needed to provide effective reference services inschool libraries.
MD 0409 The Literate Environment: P-12 Literature and Reading3 CreditsCandidates will explore factors related to creating a literate environmentand the roles of school and classroom libraries. This course includesan overview of P-12 literature, an analysis of approaches to readinginstruction and an examination of collaboration between readingprofessionals - literacy coaches, reading specialists and school librarymedia specialists.MD 0413 Technology Methods for Middle School3 CreditsThis interdepartmental course introduces students to the philosophyand organization of middle level education in the digital age. Studentslearn and apply instructional strategies and planning methods tointegrate technology appropriate for middle-level learners from diverseacademic and social backgrounds. During the required 25-hour ﬁeldwork experience, students are partnered with a classroom teacher todesign and implement a technology-enhanced instructional module. Openonly to students who have been formally accepted into the secondaryeducation or educational technology programs.MD 0414 Geospatial Technologies in the Classroom3 CreditsIn this course, we will explore geospatial technologies both outdoorsand in the computer lab using GPS and GIS, and apply "communitygames" such as geocaching and protocols for conducting "real world"research with students. Participants will develop skills and applicationsof geospatial technologies for curricular integration.MD 0429 Teaching and Training with Online Environment3 CreditsThis course will focus on ways in which teachers, trainers, andtechnology support professionals can use a variety of online tools toengage learners of all types. Students will explore ways to effectivelyemploy webinars, podcasts, screen captures, and videos to support onlineand blended learning environments, as well as how to consider relevanttechnological issues such as bandwidth, ﬁle types, policies, and mobiledevice access.MD 0430 Digital Storytelling in the Classroom3 CreditsStudies have shown that our brain organizes, retains, and accessesinformation through story. Therefore, teaching with story allows studentsto remember what is being taught, access it, and apply it more easily.This course is designed for any educator looking to utilize technologyto encourage storytelling at all levels. While maintaining a focus ontraditional conventions of storytelling, such as character development,story mapping, and writing techniques, this course aims to develop thenext generation of storytelling through a technological lens. Crosslistedwith ED 0430.MD 0442 Design and Development of Multimedia Programs3 CreditsParticipants will explore ﬁve different types of digital multimediaproduction and come to understand how it can best be adapted to createan entire learning experience. Candidates of all levels of experiencewill gain experience with four different types of multimedia tools: audiorecording/editing, video recording/editing, drawing/comics/animation,and game creation, and will create a sample production for each typeof tool. In addition, participants will explore a variety of platforms forcombining various multimedia creations into a digital publication, suchas an eBook and or other interactive presentation. All material will bepresented with an eye toward the practical use of these tools in K-12classrooms, and will also address larger issues such as accessibility,copyright compliance, and technology and economic inequity.MD 0443 Integrating Instructional Technologies in Elementary SchoolEducation3 CreditsThis course focuses on the application of a variety of instructionaltechnologies including the Internet, spreadsheets, databases, graphicprograms, and multimedia programs to structure effective learningenvironments for elementary education students. The course alsoemphasizes reviewing available teachers' resources including lessonplans, collaborative projects, and cultural diversity projects. Crosslistedwith ED 0443.MD 0452 Integrating Technology in the Content Areas: Language Arts andSocial Studies3 CreditsThis course addresses the infusion of new technologies in teachinglanguage arts and social studies curricula. Participants study and assessthe educational values of innovative teaching strategies that employ abroad range of instructional materials and resources. Museum-basededucation and community partnerships are an integral part of this course.Based upon a sound theoretical framework, instructional models andbest practices, participants design and create lesson activities andmaterials integrating technology resources including digital archives,digital storytelling, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and otheronline and publishing tools. Crosslisted with ED 0452.MD 0460 Principles of Instructional Development3 CreditsThis course covers the principles and application of systemic designof instruction in multimedia curricula design. Topics include designing,developing, and evaluating instructional materials; selecting media;conducting needs assessment and learner analysis; writing instructionalobjectives; and assessing learner performance. Candidates analyze,evaluate, and propose potential solutions to selected case studies andconduct a needs assessment.MD 0463 Methods for School Library Media3 CreditsStudents will explore effective implementation of the school library mediaprogram, integrating current research and actualizing best practicesin the ﬁeld. Topics will include strategies for teaching and learning inmultimedia environments, organizing information and support for K-12classrooms and structured focus to help the future school library mediaspecialist develop the skills and dispositions necessary to manage theroles and responsibilities of teacher and instructional partner.MD 0465 Emerging Technologies3 CreditsThis course will examine speciﬁc technologies that are being used in theclassroom at an increasing frequency. Speciﬁc technologies covered willvary depending on the section. The course can be taken more than oncefor credit depending on the topic covered with approval from the programdirector. This is a hands on course, and students will be working with theactual assigned technologies. Possible topics may include: AR/VR in theClassroom, Multimedia in the Classroom, Podcasting in the Classroom,E-Learning in the Classroom, Flipping the Classroom, Google Tools in theClassroom, Mobile Devices in the Classroom, QR Codes in the Classroom,Digital Badging.
MD 0469 Establishing Worldwide Learning Communities throughTechnology3 CreditsWorldwide developments continue to heighten awareness of theimportance of connections between people on a global scale. When weconsider our world from such a perspective, the need for understandingand education becomes glaringly apparent. This course views thebeneﬁts of using technology for communication and collaboration ona broad scale from the perspectives of both students and educators.Technologically connected learning communities around the globeoccur through students forming partnerships to learn about eachothers' customs, languages, and cultures; teachers collaborating onteaching strategies and curriculum development; or administrators andpolicymakers exchanging views on educational issues. Candidates inthis course examine the instructional strategies, issues, and concernsfor connecting communities of learning globally along with the relatedtechnological tools and techniques.MD 0470 Designing for Online Instruction3 CreditsPrerequisite: MD 0400.This course examines the nature of teaching online, the development ofonline teaching courses and activities, and the use of integrated mediaresources in online learning in K-12, higher education, and professionaldevelopment settings.MD 0472 Information Literacy Through Inquiry1-3 CreditsInquiry-based learning is a curricular framework that developscandidates' information literacy skills by encouraging rigorousinvestigation, information retrieval, collaboration, and reflection,paired with transformative learning technologies. Participants learnto locate, evaluate, and use a variety of electronic, print, multimedia,and interpersonal resources, and create a teaching unit using an onlinelearning environment developed by internationally recognized leaders ininquiry-based education. Crosslisted with ED 0472.MD 0490 Achieving an Interdisciplinary Approach to Teaching throughTechnology3 CreditsAchieving an interdisciplinary approach to teaching is a challengefacing many of today's educators. It is a set of complex tasks thatinvolves integrating content across disciplines, good instructional design,effective planning, and creative pedagogical strategies while at the sametime realizing educational equity among a diverse student population.Fortunately, technologies of instruction can help with the realization ofthese tasks. In preparation for the interdisciplinary challenge, teachersneed exceptional instruction in the stages of interdisciplinary curriculumdevelopment with technology. This course addresses the selection, use,modiﬁcations, design, integration, and implementation of interdisciplinarycurricula using technology in a culturally diverse environment. It aimsat helping candidates in the course to develop their understandingof the potential use of technologies of instruction in achieving aninterdisciplinary cross-cultural approach to education.MD 0500 Technology and Transformational Culture3 CreditsCandidates will explore contemporary philosophies in learning andinformation technologies. Recent research that supports effectiveapproaches to technology integration, and the implications for evidencebased practice in instructional settings in schools, agencies andprofessional development environments will be emphasized. Optionalopportunities for ﬁeld work based on individual professional goals.MD 0503 Research and Evaluation in K-12 Consultation andLeadership3 CreditsCandidates will examine methods of empirical research andmeasurement, the role of descriptive and inferential statistics in dataassessment and will perform critical analyses of effective quantitative,qualitative, and mixed methods research approaches. Topics will include:evaluation of current research studies and implications for professionalpractice; data assessment; the roles of the K-12 specialist: school librarymedia specialist, technology specialist, special education/TESOL/Bilingual co-teacher and/or consultant in providing support for generaleducation teachers and a diversiﬁed student population, and the skillsneeded for effective data-based decision making in school leadership.Crosslisted with RLD 0503.MD 0540 Creating and Curating Digital Content3 CreditsWhile the explosion of both online educational resources and digitalcontent creation tools has opened up a new world of possibilities forclassroom teachers, few instructors have the time to do the explorationand collation necessary to truly take advantage of all the Internet has tooffer. In this hands-on course, each student will be given the opportunityto assume the role of digital content developer for an actual universitycourse: working closely with an instructor to deﬁne and research coursecontent, learning how to evaluate digital tools for presenting materialacross devices and platforms, and choosing the best options -- be theyaggregators, e-book creators, online portfolios, or other web tools --to produce, collate, and deliver the content required by the professor.The materials produced will subsequently be used in actual FairﬁeldUniversity courses. This course is open only to students enrolled in theEducational Technology program.MD 0541 21st Century Literacies in the Classroom3 CreditsThe term "literacy" used to be associated with the ability to read andwrite. How we interact with our environment is evolving as technologyevolves. This has resulted in an expansion of the deﬁnition of literacy.Literacy now includes several facets: Information, Media, and Informationand Communication Technologies (ICT). It is important for studentsto understand the 21st century literacies and be able to use them asa guide in the global community that helped create the need for them.This course explores the concept of 21st century literacy and how theseskills can be both taught to students and integrated into our teaching tosupport student learning.MD 0545 Designing and Developing Training Programs3 CreditsDesigned for prospective training specialists, personnel generalists,school media specialists or line personnel in business and industry,this course focuses on designing and developing training programsfor administrative professionals, management employees, and schoolpersonnel. Course assignments provide individualization and tailoringof course content to candidate needs and working environments.Crosslisted with PY 0545.MD 0546 Integrating the Arts and Technology in K-12 Teaching andLearning3 CreditsThe value of the visual and performing arts in supporting essential criticalthinking is well documented in recent research. Arts education is closelylinked to every goal of school reform, academic achievement, social andemotional development, civic engagement, and equitable opportunity.Candidates will examine integration of the arts in content areas, and therobust opportunities in both formal and informal learning environmentsoffered by technology applications and digital resources. Crosslisted withED 0546.
MD 0554 Understanding Media Literacy through Popular Culture andMediated Environments3 CreditsMedia literacy is the ability to access, analyze, evaluate, and producemedia messages through a variety of mediated environments. Classtime will consist of a blending of lectures and class discussions thatwill illustrate how popular culture has altered a generation of childrenwhile at the same time looking at how it is understood and perceived bythem. Further, we will explore how media literacy can be integrated intoclassroom lessons to increase motivation and cultural awareness.MD 0585 Capstone Experience3 CreditsPrerequisites: All other required coursework in the EducationalTechnology program.This course serves as the ﬁnal summative assessment for educationaltechnology students. Their ﬁnal product should reflect their cumulativework from the program.MD 0590 Practicum in Educational Technology3-6 CreditsThis practicum provides full-time students with ﬁrsthand experience ineducational technology management.MD 0594 Survey of Innovation in Technology3 CreditsTechnologies are being introduced at an astounding pace, and theiradoption is increasingly being driven by consumers rather than byinstitutional needs and considerations. For educational technologymanagers, the ability to critically assess new tools and foresee wheretechnology is heading are essential skills. In this course, students willexamine the introduction of a variety of mass communication and digitaltechnologies in the recent past in order to develop an understandingof the common elements that have characterized technical innovationin U.S. society and their potential use in education. In taking a case-study approach to the topic, students will conduct research on therelative success of, and societal/institutional reactions to, the varioustechnologies. Students will also study failed technologies in an effortto understand what elements might have been missing. The coursewill culminate with each student developing their own measurementand assessment of a current "new" technology and develop a strategicplan as to how it might be pursued/implemented in their own school ordistrict. This course is only open to students enrolled in the Sixth YearCertiﬁcate program in Educational Technology.MD 0595 Independent Study3-6 CreditsCandidates complete individual study in educational technology with afaculty member after submitting a proposal for independent study prior toregistration.Electrical Engineering (EE)EE 0213 Introduction to Electric Circuits3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0146, PS 0116, PS 0116L.This course introduces engineering students to the analysis of linearelectric circuits. The course covers the basic laws of circuit behaviorand analysis techniques, including descriptions of circuit elements andelectronic variables, and considers circuit theorems and principles forinsightful analysis of electrical circuits. The course introduces basicconcepts and analysis of networks.EE 0213L Electric Circuits Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: EE 0213.Students use common electrical laboratory instruments (oscilloscopes,meters, and signal generators) and elemental circuit componentsto construct and analyze basic electrical circuits. They study theapplication of circuit theorems and circuit elements (RL and RC); conductexperiments with transient, steady state, and frequency response; anduse software applications to simulate and analyze circuit performance.EE 0221 Frequency Domain Circuit Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0245, EE 0213.Students perform frequency domain analysis of passive and activecircuits, study transient and AC circuit analysis manually and withcomputer-aided applications, and examine the transient response of ﬁrstand second order circuits. The course introduces pole and zero conceptsand applies them to circuit analysis, and introduces computer methods ofcircuit analysis and design.EE 0231 Introduction to Electronics Circuits and Devices3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0213.This ﬁrst course in electronics teaches basic principles and technologiesto understand, analyze, and design electronic circuits. The course reviewsthe properties of semiconductor materials used in the fabrication ofdiodes, bipolar junction transistors, and ﬁeld effect transistors. Studentsanalyze ampliﬁer biasing techniques and develop circuit models of semi-conductor devices that are used to analyze and design electronic circuits.Computer simulations of circuits are used to illustrate the fundamentalprinciples.EE 0231L Electronics Circuits Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: EE 0231.Prerequisite: EE 0213L.Students build and test circuits using diodes, bipolar junction transistors,and MOSFETs. They use the principles developed in EE 0231 to analyze,build, and test ampliﬁer and oscillator circuits.EE 0301 Signal and Systems I3 CreditsCorequisite: MA 0251.Prerequisite: EE 0221.This course studies and classiﬁes continuous and discrete signals andsystems. It presents time domain and discrete analysis of signals usingthe Fourier series, Laplace transforms, Fourier transforms, z-transforms,and fast Fourier transforms (e.g., differential equations, convolution,concept and meaning of impulse response); and examines frequencydomain analysis, the Fourier series, and the Fourier transform as analternative to time domain analysis. Students gain further insights intosignal and system properties through the Laplace transform methods andthe concept of the transfer function.
EE 0315 Nanoelectronics I3 CreditsPrerequisite: EG 0212.Building on the two introductory courses in nanotechnology, this courseis the ﬁrst of two that describe how nanotechnology can be integratedinto the electronics industry. The unique electrical, mechanical, andoptical properties of structures in the nanometer range and how theymay be applied to electronics products are discussed. Principles ofelectronic materials, semiconductor devices, and microfabricationtechniques will be extended to the nanoscale. Students will increasetheir knowledge of electronic structure, quantum mechanics, and thebehavior of optoelectronic and low-dimensional systems. Students makeextensive use of the available literature to seek out potential applicationsof nanotechnology. Intended for students interested in the minor innanotechnology/nanoelectronics track. Also open to interested graduatestudents in ECE.EE 0331 Analog Electronics Design3 CreditsPrerequisites: EE 0221, EE 0231.This advanced course in electronics examines high frequency responseof bipolar junction transistor and ﬁeld-effect transistor ampliﬁers usinghybrid two-port active device models. Students consider the effect offeedback and frequency compensation techniques on the ampliﬁerresponse and study a variety of analog circuits with respect to theiranalysis and applications, including active ﬁlters, oscillators, waveformgeneration and shaping, voltage regulator, and communication circuits.The course introduces basic power electronics device components.EE 0331L Analog Electronics Lab1 CreditCorequisite: EE 0331.Prerequisite: EE 0231L.This advanced lab provides insight into the functions of variousapplication-speciﬁc electronic circuits. Experiments characterizefunctioning of various analog systems, such as oscillators, active ﬁlters,waveform generation and shaping circuits, and voltage regulator circuits.EE 0335 Microelectronics3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0331.This course covers three methods of fabricating high-densityinterconnection structures for manufacturing microelectronicassemblies: thick ﬁlms, thin ﬁlms, and printed circuit boards. The thickand thin ﬁlm technologies use substrates of metalized ceramic to makethe interconnections between components and are capable of fabricatingintegrated resistors with high precision and stability. The printed circuitboard technology uses organic materials with copper laminates to etchthe interconnection patterns. The individual layers are laminated toproduce the multilayer structure, but do not include integrated resistors.Each of the technologies is examined to determine the electrical andphysical properties of the structures. Such parameters as distributedcapacitance and how they affect circuit performance are discussed. Inthe laboratory accompanying the course, students have the opportunityto fabricate thick and thin ﬁlm circuits and to examine the structure ofprinted circuit boards.EE 0346 Embedded Microcontrollers3 CreditsPrerequisite: CR 0245.This course covers the architecture of microcontrollers, including howthey are constructed internally and how they interface with externalcircuitry. Applications for microcontrollers in both complex and simpleequipment are discussed. Students learn how to apply and how to selecta microcontroller for a given application. Students will learn to programthe microcontroller to develop programming skills. The software toolswill be used to develop software code for practical applications such asservo motor control, sensor reading, and data display. An accompanyinglaboratory course covers the programming of microprocessors todo a speciﬁc task. An accompanying laboratory course covers theprogramming of microprocessors to do a speciﬁc task. This coursecovers the programming and application of the PIC microcontroller.Students are able to develop programming skills using assemblylanguage and software tools such as MPLAB IDE and MultiSim MCU.These tools are used to develop software code for practical applicationssuch as motor speed control and voltage regulation for power supplies.EE 0346L Microcontroller Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: EE 0346.This laboratory covers the basic operation and applications of amicrocontroller. Students learn to program a microcontroller to controlapplications, such as motor speed, by the use of an emulator connectedto a PC. They design a circuit using a microcontroller for a speciﬁcapplication and write a program to control the circuit. On completion ofthe program, they use the emulator to program an actual microcontrollerfor use in their circuits.EE 0355 Sensor Design and Applications3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0213.This course covers the design, fabrication, and properties of sensorsintended to measure a variety of parameters, such as stress, temperature,differential pressure, and acceleration. Sensors of different types areused in a wide range of equipment, especially automated equipment,to detect changes in state and to provide the signals necessary tocontrol various functions. Sensors are generally connected to electronicssystems that process and distribute the signals. The support electronicsmust identify the signal, separate it from noise and other interference,and direct it to the appropriate point. These support electronics are acritical part of the sensor technology; students discuss their design andpackaging in detail.EE 0360 Power Electronics3 CreditsPrerequisites: EE 0301, EE 0221.This course covers the design and operation of power electronicscircuits, such as power supplies and motor controls. Using electroniccircuit models for transistors and diodes developed in earlier courses,students analyze and design power circuits. Particular attention is paid topower dissipation and packaging. The accompanying laboratory course,EE 0360L, provides practical experience in conjunction with the lecturematerial.EE 0360L Power Electronics Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeThis lab applies the theory developed in EE 0360 to actual devices.Students fabricate, test, and optimize their designs. They gain practicalexperience in packaging and cooling power circuits.
EE 0361 Green Power Generation3 CreditsThis course compares various methods of green power generationincluding solar power, wind power, water power, and several others. Thiscourse covers how power is generated from these sources, the startupcosts, the efﬁciency, and the practicality. These methods are comparedto the present most common method of using oil and gas to heat waterinto steam to turn turbines. The student does not necessarily need abackground in engineering and any necessary background material willbe covered to the understanding of all.EE 0377 Power Security and Reliability3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0385.This course focuses on Power System Protection and Relaying to allowthe design of robust and reliable power systems. After reviewing theneed for protection of power system elements (motors, generators,transformers, and transmission/distribution lines), the course: Exploresdevelopments in the creation of smarter, more flexible protective systemsbased on advances in the computational power of digital devices and thecapabilities of communication systems that can be applied within thepower grid, Examines the regulations related to power system protectionand how they impact the way protective relaying systems are designed,applied, set, and monitored, Considers the evaluation of protectivesystems during system disturbances and describes the tools available foranalysis, Addresses the beneﬁts and problems associated with applyingmicroprocessor-based devices in protection schemes' Contains anexpanded discussion of internal protection requirements at dispersedgeneration facilities. MatLab is used to solve homework problems and doteam design projects.EE 0378 Electromagnetic Compatibility3 CreditsPrerequisites: EE 0231, EE 0301, PS 0271.This course presents design techniques to minimize electromagneticinterference (EMI) from or to it. The various sources of Radio-frequencyemissions from electronic systems, coupling paths for the transfer ofundesired electromagnetic energy will be introduced. ElectromagneticCompatibility (EMC) requirements for electronic products will bepresented along with techniques to measure EMI. High speed digitalsignal transmission integrity related issues and methods to overcomesignal integrity will be introduced. Techniques to minimize conductedand radiated Emissions through ﬁltering and grounding will be presented.System design for EMC will be presented.EE 0379 Communication Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0301.This course focuses on analog and digital communication systems andthe effects of noise on those systems. It includes analog modulation anddemodulation techniques (amplitude, frequency, and phase modulation)and digital Modulation and demodulation techniques (ASK, FSK, PSK,PCM, and delta modulation). It discusses performance analysis of analogand digital communication systems under noise with applications ofprobability theory to the analysis. It discusses information measure,source coding, error correcting codes and Spread spectrum systems.EE 0382 Advanced Electrical Project2 CreditsPrerequisites: Departmental approval of project proposal followingcompletion of non-elective electrical engineering courses and at least onemajor elective.During this design course emphasizing individual creativity, students(working with a faculty mentor) develop project objectives andperformance speciﬁcations. At review meetings, students presentprogress on their project, including analytic and experimental results todate. A ﬁnal report and presentation demonstrates the accomplishmentsand signiﬁcant conclusions. Faculty involvement creates a realisticengineering development environment. Students may take this course asindependent study once the prerequisites have been met.EE 0383 Wireless Systems I3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0213.This course covers several aspects of wireless communication, includingantenna design, FCC regulations, and multi-channel transmissionprotocols. Modern design approaches, such as Bluetooth, are discussed,along with wide-area network systems (WANS) and local broadbandnetworks.EE 0385 Power Generation and Distribution3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0221.This course considers the generation and distribution of electrical powerto large areas. Three-phase networks are described in detail, includingboth generators and loads. Methods of modeling distribution systemsby per-unit parameters are covered, along with power factor correctionmethods. Fault detection and lightning protection methods are alsodescribed. Some economic aspects of power generation and distributionare presented.EE 0386 Fault Analysis in Power Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: EE 0385.This course covers three types of faults in electrical power grids: openlines, lines shorted to ground, and lines shorted to each other. Methods oflocating faults are covered along with an analysis of the effects of suchfaults. Methods of protection and fault isolation are also covered.Electrical and Computer Engineering(ECE)ECE 0405 Electronic Materials3 CreditsThis course describes the properties and applications of certainmaterials used in the design and manufacture of electronic assemblies.Ceramics are often used as insulators, heat sinks, and substrates forinterconnection structures. The course presents electrical, mechanical,and thermal properties of various ceramics, along with methods offabricating and machining ceramic structures. Adhesives used to mountcomponents and to replace mechanical fasteners such as screws andrivets provide connections that are stronger and take up less space. Thecourse examines properties of adhesives such as epoxies, silicones,and cyanoacrylates under conditions of high temperature storageand humidity, along with methods of applications. Solders used tointerconnect electronic components and assemblies are selected fortemperature compatibility, mechanical properties, and reliability. Thecourse emphasizes the new lead-free solder materials and presentsthe properties of plastic materials and the methods of forming plasticstructures.
ECE 0406 Advanced Digital Design3 CreditsThis course examines computer architecture implemented using ahardware design language and programmable logic devices. Studentslearn the VHDL hardware description language, and learn to use moderndesign, simulation, and synthesis software. Students design, verify,build and test digital logic circuits using industry standard developmentboards, and ﬁeld programmable gate array (FPGA) technology.ECE 0411 Digital Signal Processing3 CreditsModern signal processing tools including vector spaces, bases andframes, operators, signal expansions and approximation, as well asclassical signal processing tools including Fourier and z transforms,ﬁltering and sampling, estimation, applications, and implementation.ECE 0415 Engineering Applications of Numerical Methods3 CreditsThis course provides students with the theoretical basis to proceed infuture studies. Topics include root-ﬁnding, interpolation, linear algebraicsystems, numerical integration, numerical solution of ordinary andpartial differential equations, modeling, simulation, initial boundary valueproblems, and two point boundary value problems.ECE 0420 Readings in Electrical and Computer Engineering3 CreditsStudents formulate a project proposal, perform literature surveys, andlearn the ﬁner points of technical writing and presentation at the graduatelevel. The course requires a meta-paper written about the literature in theﬁeld. It emphasizes the basics of technical writing and research, and isorganized to emphasize methods of the writing and the research process.Students learn to state a problem, the techniques of analysis, methods ofinvestigation, and functional organization.ECE 0423 Thermal Management of Microdevices3 CreditsThis course addresses the thermal design in electronic assemblies whichincludes thermal characteristics, heat transfer mechanisms and thermalfailure modes. Thermal design of electronic devices enables engineers toprevent heat-related failures, increase the life expectancy of the system,and reduce emitted noise and energy consumption. This course providesthe required knowledge of heat transfer for such analysis and variousoptions available for thermal management of electronics. This coursealso presents advanced methods of removing heat from electroniccircuits, including heat pipes, liquid immersion and forced convection.Formerly ECE 0425.ECE 0431 Biomedical Signal Processing3 CreditsThis course presents an overview of different methods used inbiomedical signal processing. Signals with bioelectric origin are givenspecial attention and their properties and clinical signiﬁcance arereviewed. In many cases, the methods used for processing and analyzingbiomedical signals are derived from a modeling perspective based onstatistical signal descriptions. The purpose of the signal processingmethods ranges from reduction of noise and artifacts to extraction ofclinically signiﬁcant features. The course gives each participant theopportunity to study the performance of a method on real, biomedicalsignals.ECE 0432 Biomedical Imaging3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0431.The course presents the fundamentals and applications of commonmedical imaging techniques, for example: x-ray imaging and computedtomography, nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound,and optical imaging. In addition, as a basis for biomedical imaging,introductory material on general image formation concepts andcharacteristics are presented, including human visual perception andpsychophysics.ECE 0433 Biomedical Visualization3 CreditsAn introduction to 3D biomedical visualization. Various technologies areintroduced, include UltraSound, MRI, CAT scans, PET scans, etc. Studentswill learn about spatial data structures, computational geometry and solidmodeling with applications in 3D molecular and anatomical modeling.ECE 0435 Microelectronics3 CreditsThis course considers the methods of interconnecting electroniccomponents at very high circuit densities and describes methods ofdesigning and fabricating multilayer printed circuit boards, co-ﬁredmultilayer ceramic substrates, and multilayer thin ﬁlm substratesin detail. It discusses the methods of depositing thick and thin ﬁlmmaterials, along with their properties, and analyzes these structuresand compares them for thermal management, high frequency capability,characteristic impedance, cross-coupling of signals, and cost. The coursealso includes techniques for mounting components to these boards,including wire bonding, flip chip, and tape automated bonding.ECE 0440 Computer Graphics3 CreditsThis course supports the visualization and computer systems domainwith computer gaming applications. It is an introduction to GUI and gamedesign and computer graphics concepts. Topics include human-computerinterfaces using the AWT; applied geometry; homogeneous coordinatetransforms.ECE 0441 Computer Systems Architecture3 CreditsAn investigation into computer architectures (past, present and future).We will explore various hardware and software techniques designedto maximize parallelism and improve performance. Front-end design(branch prediction, instruction fetch, trace caches), HW/SW techniquesof parallelism, Memory system design (caching, prefetching), Technologyissues (low power, scaling, reliability, nanotechnology), multiprocessors.Class will include a mix of lectures and discussions on assigned readingsof recent publications. Students will be responsible for leading andparticipating in these discussions. A course project exploring a particulartopic in depth will be required.ECE 0448 Embedded Microcontrollers3 CreditsIntroduction to embedded microcontrollers in electronic andelectromechanical systems. Hardware and software design techniquesare explored for user and system interfaces, data acquisition and control.These tools are used to develop software code for practical applicationssuch as motor speed control and voltage regulation for power supplies.ECE 0448L Embedded Microcontrollers Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeThis laboratory covers the basic operation and applications of amicroprocessor. Students learn to program a microprocessor to controlapplications such as motor speed by the use of an emulator connectedto a PC. They design a circuit using a microprocessor for a speciﬁcapplication and write a program to control the circuit. On completion ofthe program, they use the emulator to program an actual microprocessorfor use in their circuit.
ECE 0451 Nanoelectronics I3 CreditsBuilding on the two introductory courses in nanotechnology, this courseis the ﬁrst of two that describe how nanotechnology can be integratedinto the electronics industry. The unique electrical, mechanical, andoptical properties of structures in the nanometer range and how theymay be applied to electronics products are discussed. Principles ofelectronic materials, semiconductor devices, and microfabricationtechniques will be extended to the nanoscale. Students will increasetheir knowledge of electronic structure, quantum mechanics, and thebehavior of optoelectronic and low-dimensional systems. Students makeextensive use of the available literature to seek out potential applicationsof nanotechnology.ECE 0455 Sensor Design and Application3 CreditsThis course covers the design, fabrication, and properties of sensorsintended to measure a variety of parameters, such as stress, temperature,differential pressure, and acceleration. Sensors of different types areused in a wide range of equipment, especially automated equipment,to detect changes in state and to provide the signals necessary tocontrol various functions. Sensors are generally connected to electronicssystems that process and distribute the signals. The support electronicsmust identify the signal, separate it from noise and other interference,and direct it to the appropriate point. These support electronics are acritical part of the sensor technology; students discuss their design andpackaging in detail.ECE 0457 Advanced Linear Systems3 CreditsModeling and analysis of linear systems. Introduction to linear algebrawith emphasis on matrices, linear transformations on a vector space, andmatrix formulation of linear differential and difference equations. Statevariable analysis of advanced linear systems. Transform methods usingcomplex variable theory, and time-domain methods including numericalalgorithms.ECE 0460 Network Programming3 CreditsThis course covers principles of networking and network programming.Topics include OSI layers, elementary queuing theory, protocol analysis,multi-threading, command-line interpreters, and monitors. Students writea distributed computing system and check their performance predictionswith experiments.ECE 0461 Green Power Generation3 CreditsThis course compares various methods of green power generationincluding solar power, wind power, water power, and several others. Thiscourse covers how power is generated from these sources, the startupcosts, the efﬁciency, and the practicality. These methods are comparedto the present most common method of using oil and gas to heat waterinto steam to turn turbines. The student does not necessarily need abackground in engineering and any necessary background material willbe covered to the understanding of all.ECE 0470 Network Embedded Systems3 CreditsThis course covers distributed development - connecting peripherals tonetworks via Java. Plug-and-play paradigm is used to add services onthe fly. Students learn about the following topics: multicast and unicastprotocols, service leasing, lookup services, remote events, sharing databetween distributed processes, and distributed transactions. The coursealso covers interfacing hardware (sensors, robotics, etc.) to the Web.ECE 0477 Power Security and Reliability3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0495.This course focuses on Power System Protection and Relaying to allowthe design of robust and reliable power systems. After reviewing theneed for protection of power system elements (motors, generators,transformers, and transmission/distribution lines), the course: Exploresdevelopments in the creation of smarter, more flexible protective systemsbased on advances in the computational power of digital devices and thecapabilities of communication systems that can be applied within thepower grid, Examines the regulations related to power system protectionand how they impact the way protective relaying systems are designed,applied, set, and monitored, Considers the evaluation of protectivesystems during system disturbances and describes the tools available foranalysis, Addresses the beneﬁts and problems associated with applyingmicroprocessor-based devices in protection schemes' Contains anexpanded discussion of internal protection requirements at dispersedgeneration facilities. MatLab is used to solve homework problems and doteam design projects.ECE 0478 Electromagnetic Compatibility3 CreditsThis course presents design techniques to minimize electromagneticinterference (EMI) from or to it. The various sources of Radio-frequencyemissions from electronic systems, coupling paths for the transfer ofundesired electromagnetic energy will be introduced. ElectromagneticCompatibility (EMC) requirements for electronic products will bepresented along with techniques to measure EMI. High speed digitalsignal transmission integrity related issues and methods to overcomesignal integrity will be introduced. Techniques to minimize conductedand radiated Emissions through ﬁltering and grounding will be presented.System design for EMC will be presented.ECE 0479 Communication Systems3 CreditsThis course focuses on analog and digital communication systems andthe effects of noise on those systems. It includes analog modulation anddemodulation techniques (amplitude, frequency, and phase modulation)and digital modulation and demodulation techniques (ASK, FSK, PSK,PCM, and delta modulation). It discusses performance analysis of analogand digital communication systems under noise with applications ofprobability theory to the analysis. It discusses information measure,source coding, error correcting codes and Spread spectrum systems.ECE 0480 Wireless Systems I3 CreditsThe applications of wireless communication are expanding rapidly - fromcellular phones to wireless internet to household appliances - and involvemany disciplines other than microwave transmission. This course coversseveral aspects of wireless communication, including antenna design,FCC regulations, and multi-channel transmission protocols. In addition, itdiscusses modern design approaches such as Bluetooth. Students learnhow analog and digital signals are coded. The course also discussestransmission during interference and EMI/RFI as well as ﬁber opticscommunication.ECE 0483 Independent Study3 CreditsStudents pursue special topics, projects, and/or readings in selectedareas. Students must meet with the instructor to discuss the proposedtopic of study.ECE 0495 Power Generation and Distribution3 CreditsThis course considers the generation and distribution of electrical powerto large areas. Three-phase networks are described in detail, includingboth generators and loads. Methods of modeling distribution systemsby per-unit parameters are covered, along with power factor correctionmethods. Fault detection and lightning protection methods are alsodescribed. Some economic aspects of power generation and distributionare presented.
ECE 0496 Fault Analysis in Power Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0495.This course covers three types of faults in electrical power grids: openlines, lines shorted to ground, and lines shorted to each other. Methods oflocating faults are covered, along with an analysis of the effects. Methodsof protection and fault isolation are also covered.ECE 0505 Advanced Power Electronics3 CreditsThis course considers the design and application of electronic circuitsrelated to power generation and conversion including inverters, powersupplies, and motor controls. Topics include AC-DC, DC-DC, DC-AC, AC-ACconverters, resonant converters, and the designof magnetic components.Models of electric motors and generators are presented to facilitate thedesign of controls for these structures.ECE 0508 Engineering Entrepreneurship3 CreditsDesigned speciﬁcally for engineers and scientists having a passion fortechnological innovation, this popular interdisciplinary course focuses onthe roles of inventors and founders in successful high-tech ventures. Byproviding knowledge and skills important to the creation and leadershipof such startups, the course aims to train the founders and leadersof tomorrow's high-tech companies. This course makes use of case-studies and active learning to engage the students in venture creation.Guest lectures enable industry experts to share their insights for ventureformation.ECE 0510L Product Design Laboratory1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeePrerequisite: ECE 0405.This laboratory course provides hands-on experience in measuring andanalyzing the electrical and mechanical properties of materials usedin the design of electronic products. It also covers thermal analysisand methods of removing the heat from electronic circuits. Experientiallearning includes measurement of temperature coefﬁcient of expansion,measurement of thermal resistance, measurement of tensile strength,measurement of material hardness, temperature measurement ofelectronic components, Peltier effect (thermoelectric coolers), heat pipes,convection cooling (ﬁns and air flow), and heat flow across a bondinginterface such as solder or epoxy.ECE 0520L System Design Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: ECE 0455.This laboratory provides students with an understanding of sensors andnon-linear control systems. Experiments include temperature sensorssuch as thermocouples, thermistors, and infrared, motion sensors, straingauges, nonlinear servos, and computer analysis of nonlinear systems.ECE 0530L Power Elecronics Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeThis laboratory provides hands-on experience in analyzing and designingpower electronics circuits and in analyzing and modeling powergeneration and distribution systems. Students design and constructvoltage regulators, switching power supplies, and motor controllers.Students also develop circuit models for AC and DC motors and powertransformers. Experiential learning includes developing circuit modelsfor power distribution systems, measuring parameters of motors andtransformers and using the data to develop electrical circuit models ofthese devices, and analyzing the properties of power distribution systemsand developing computer models for them. One credit.ECE 0550 Thesis I3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0420.The master's thesis tests students' abilities to formulate a problem, solveit, and communicate the results. The thesis is supervised on an individualbasis. A thesis involves the ability to gather information, examine itcritically, think creatively, organize effectively, and write convincingly; itis a project that permits students to demonstrate skills that are basic toacademic and industry work. The student must also submit a paper forpossible inclusion in a refereed journal appropriate to the topic.ECE 0551 Thesis II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0550.The master's thesis tests students' abilities to formulate a problem, solveit, and communicate the results. The thesis is supervised on an individualbasis. A thesis involves the ability to gather information, examine itcritically, think creatively, organize effectively, and write convincingly; itis a project that permits students to demonstrate skills that are basic toacademic and industry work. The student must also submit a paper forpossible inclusion in a refereed journal appropriate to the topic.ECE 0552 Thesis III3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0551.The master's thesis tests students' abilities to formulate a problem, solveit, and communicate the results. The thesis is supervised on an individualbasis. A thesis involves the ability to gather information, examine itcritically, think creatively, organize effectively, and write convincingly; itis a project that permits students to demonstrate skills that are basic toacademic and industry work. The student must also submit a paper forpossible inclusion in a refereed journal appropriate to the topic.ECE 0591 Capstone Professional Project I3 CreditsPrerequisites: Completion of 9 credits in the MS ECE program.In these two semester capstone courses, students form teams, performa technical study, and design, develop, and test electrical and computersystems based on their customer's requirements. The results ofthese projects provide a library of case studies, designs, developmenttechniques, and project management skills that are of interest to localindustry professionals. A capstone prospectus must be developed at thebeginning of the capstone sequence.ECE 0592 Capstone Professional Project II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ECE 0591.In these two semester capstone courses, students form teams, performa technical study, and design, develop, and test electrical and computersystems based on their customer's requirements. The results ofthese projects provide a library of case studies, designs, developmenttechniques, and project management skills that are of interest to localindustry professionals. A capstone prospectus must be developed at thebeginning of the capstone sequence.
Engineering (EG)EG 0031 Fundamentals of Engineering I3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0115*.This course provides core engineering knowledge and competenciesin a highly interactive class format. Topics include professional skillssuch as technical writing and presentation, guidelines for professionalengineering practice, and career preparation. Introduction to the ﬁelds,roles, and industries of engineering also serves as a basis for selectionof engineering major ﬁeld. Hands-on team projects are core learningexperiences. They form a structured introduction to the implementationof principles of design and engineering methodologies, systemengineering management, and presentation skills. Guest presentersand ﬁeld trips augment this course, which is taught by interdisciplinaryfaculty teams. (*indicates concurrency allowed)EG 0060 STEM of Guitar3 CreditsFee: $250 Engineering Lab FeeThis course looks at the design elements, manufacturing and assemblyof solid-body electric guitars. Science, technology, engineering, andmathematics (STEM) concepts that relate directly to guitars are used tohelp students make an applied learning connection. Each student willconstruct their own electric guitar. Course will cover wood species andthe environment, guitar headstock design features, chemistry of ﬁnishes,math applications in a guitar, physical science aspects of the guitarsuch as mechanical systems, concepts of sound waves, string tension,fretboard layout, intonation, and electronics. Studio-style class, lectureand lab time combined throughout course. The $250 lab fee applies tocover materials.EG 0130 Engineering Graphics I3 CreditsThis is a basic course in engineering graphics principles and is taughtsimultaneously with SolidWorks, a 3D modeling design application.Using traditional and computer design, the course stresses geometricconstructions, orthographic projection, dimensioning, sectional views, 3Dpart modeling, assembly modeling, drafting and engineering drawings,animation and geometric tolerancing. The course stresses aesthetics andtechnical sketching. You will gain a working knowledge of SolidWorksin engineering design. Course requires a computer that runs MicrosoftWindows. Formerly CD 0211.EG 0145 Mathematical Analysis3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsCorequisites: EG 0145P, MA 0146.Prerequisite: MA 0145.In this course students will learn mathematical and numerical methodssuch as differentiation, integration, and Fourier analysis and how to applythese methods to solve scientiﬁc problems. Additionally, the course willcover statistics including data analysis, trend ﬁtting, datacorrelation,and interpolation. Students will learn to use MATLAB as a tool but alsobecome proﬁcient in programming.EG 0145P Mathematical Analysis PLG0 CreditsEG 0210 Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology I3 CreditsThis course will provide a highly interdisciplinary introduction to thescience of nanoscale materials (nanoscience). The course will survey thenew ﬁeld of nanoscience/nanotechnology, aiming to motivate interestin and heighten awareness of this ﬁeld. Its many potential applicationsin medicine, biology, electronics and optoelectronics, engineering,materials science and chemistry, open a broad new horizon to anexciting technology to serve societal needs. Topics will include historicalbackground, characterization techniques, physics and chemistryof nanoscale materials, fabrication techniques, characterizationmethods, nanoscale applications (nanotechnology), and ethical/societalconsiderations.EG 0260 Robots3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0115.Introductory course in robotics develops understanding of howrobotic systems integrate sensors, actuators, and control systems toachieve speciﬁc goals. Principles of autonomy, programming, wirelesscommunications, sensor applications, mechatronics, electrical power,electric motors, pneumatics, structure, and locomotion will be understoodand applied. Design of robotic subsystems will utilize multiple areas ofknowledge. The course will involve application of statistical analysis toquantify robot performance. Service learning is an integral part of thecourse. All participants will participate in weekly mentoring of a youthrobotics competition team to put into practice the principles learned inclass, and to learn through community interaction from other studentsusing robots to accomplish different feats.EG 0300 Feedback Control Systems3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0251, EE 0301.This course emphasizes analysis and synthesis of closed loopcontrol systems using both classical and state-space approacheswith an emphasis on electro-mechanical systems. The mathematicalrequirements include the Laplace transform methods of solvingdifferential equations, matrix algebra, and basic complex variables.The discussion of classical control system design includes themodeling of dynamic systems, block diagram representation, timeand frequency domain methods, transient and steady state response,stability criteria, controller action [Proportional (P), proportional andintegral (PI), Proportional, integral, and derivative (PID) and pseudo-derivatives feedback], root locus methods, the methods of Nyquistand Bode, and dynamics compensation techniques. The discussion ofstate-space methods includes formulation and solution (analytical andcomputer-based) of the state equations and pole-placement design. Thecourse integrates the use of computer-aided analysis and design tools(MATLAB) so as to ensure relevance to the design of real world controlledelectro-mechanical systems using case studies and applications toelectrical and mechanical systems. Includes lab (hardware-based)exercises. Formerly MC 0300.EG 0305 Design of Mechatronics Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.This course covers development of mechatronics theory and applicationsto systems dependent upon the integration of mechanical, electricaland computer engineering. Students assemble hardware componentsto create a product design that fulﬁlls a speciﬁed task in a mechatronicssystem. Students develop design skills in mechanisms, electrical devices,and software to create, test, and verify system function. Formerly MC0305.
EG 0315 Engineering Applications of Numerical Methods3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131.Topics include root-ﬁnding, interpolation, linear algebraic systems,numerical integration, numerical solution of ordinary and partialdifferential equations, modeling, simulation, initial boundary valueproblems, and two point boundary value problems. Formerly EG 0325.EG 0330 Engineering Graphics II3 CreditsThis course introduces CATIA Version 5; the leading CAD/CAM/CAEapplication used by automotive, aerospace, shipbuilding, and consumergoods industries. It provides mechanical, electrical, automotive,aerospace, and marine engineers and architects with the design tools totake products from concept to completion - in one seamless application.This course covers basic solid modeling concepts of individualsheetmetal and machined parts from detailed drawings. "Complex ShapeModeling" using "wireframe concepts" and "surface-based" modelingis covered. Building of assemblies of components and control of theirpositioning and orientation, as well as motion simulation is covered. Fullydetailed production drawings of components and assemblies are alsocovered. Formerly CD 0212.EG 0350 Advanced Programmable Logic Control (PLC) Systems3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0116, MA 0245.This course will give students advanced concepts in programmablelogic controllers and their applications and interfacing to industrialcontrols in the areas of automation, manufacturing, and others. Topicsinclude bit operations, data manipulation, industrial PLC network utilizingEthernet, ControlNet, and DeviceNet. Data sharing and distributed PLCprogramming techniques along with fundamentals of touch panelprogramming and operation are studied. State of the art software used:MultiSim, LabView, Cosivis, Veep, Automation Studio, and RS Logix 500. Itwill include also: input/output ports, intermittent and continuous processcontrol, arithmetic and comparison instruction, function block diagrams,indirect and indexed addressing, and sequential function charts. Thecourse will consist of: lectures, group discussions, case studies, a termproject, and computer simulation. Formerly MF 0350.EG 0360 Engineering Project Management3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method CourseThis course concentrates on the general methodology of managingan engineering project from concept to operational use with emphasison the functions, roles, and responsibilities of the project manager.Study of the basic principles and techniques related to controllingresources (i.e. people, materials, equipment, contractors, and cashflow) to complete a project on time and within budget while meeting thestated technical requirements. Through group and individual activities,including case study review and ﬁeld work, students will learn to applyproject management tools and techniques. The course will be taught byteaching each phase of project management as we complete the relevantaspects of the project in the ﬁeld. There will be some classroom time forintroducing concepts, and planning. However, the majority of time eachday will be spent in the ﬁeld executing the project, putting into practicethe phases of project management. The course will prepare students withthe ability to learn the necessary background information and hands-ontechnical skills, to be flexible and adaptable in difﬁcult environments.These skills will be valuable in many areas, particularly in the planningand execution of humanitarian action and engineering in developingcountries. Enrollment by permission only. Students must be able to studyabroad.EG 0390 Senior Design Project I3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of all non-elective program courses; completionof other program requirements to enable graduation within the year ofcompletion of EG 0391.In this capstone course, students work in teams on advanced projectsthat emphasize engineering design with due attention to designconstraints and engineering standards. The overarching scope of thiscourse is to transform engineering students to practicing engineers.Under the guidance of a faculty instructor and a mentor, each teamconducts literature searches, write a technical proposal and its membersdevelop skills in information analysis and synthesis; they model andtest prototypes of their devices, and make frequent oral and posterpresentations of their work to faculty and peers, and submit timelyprogress reports. In the process, they receive instruction in effectivecommunication and presentation practices, and develop an appreciationof teamwork and collective success. This two-semester course beginsin the fall of the academic year and concludes at the end of the springterm with a ﬁnal team oral presentation and a ﬁnal written report, and aworking prototype of the team's project. It also includes sample hardwarefabrication in the machine laboratory.EG 0391 Senior Design Project II3 CreditsPrerequisite: EG 0390.In this capstone course, students work in teams on advanced projectsthat emphasize engineering design with due attention to designconstraints and engineering standards. The overarching scope of thiscourse is to transform engineering students to practicing engineers.Under the guidance of a faculty instructor and a mentor, each teamconducts literature searches, write a technical proposal and its membersdevelop skills in information analysis and synthesis; they model andtest prototypes of their devices, and make frequent oral and posterpresentations of their work to faculty and peers, and submit timelyprogress reports. In the process, they receive instruction in effectivecommunication and presentation practices, and develop an appreciationof teamwork and collective success. This two-semester course beginsin the fall of the academic year and concludes at the end of the springterm with a ﬁnal team oral presentation and a ﬁnal written report, and aworking prototype of the team's project. It also includes sample hardwarefabrication in the machine laboratory.EG 0398 Internship1-3 CreditsEG 0399 Independent Study1-4 CreditsEG 0400 Internship1-3 CreditsEnglish (EN)EN 0011 Texts and Contexts I: Writing as Craft and Inquiry3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the many kinds of reading andwriting they will do across the curriculum and beyond. Students learnto draft, revise, and edit their own texts and respond effectively to thetexts of their peers. The course offers practice with writing and readingassignments that call on different contexts (purposes, audiences, forms,or modes). Through the careful use of primary and secondary sources,students will foster their academic curiosities, practice reflection, andread deeply to join the conversation of ideas. Designated sections maysatisfy the U.S. or world diversity requirement.
EN 0012 Texts and Contexts II: Writing About Literature3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0011.This course builds on the reading, writing, and critical inquiry work ofEN 0011, focusing on the development of increasingly sophisticatedreading, writing, researching and inquiry skills through the explorationof literary texts and their contexts. Students will practice close readingtechniques, be introduced to key terms and concepts in literary study, andpractice writing in a variety of academic and creative genres. The courseis intended to foster greater appreciation for the power of literature andliterary study as a foundation to all the liberal arts.EN 0101 Introduction to Literary and Cultural Studies3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course allows students to develop ways of reading, analyzing, andinteracting with texts in English from around the globe. You will focuson such questions as: How are literary texts produced? How do local,national, and global cultures and events affect the way authors fashiontheir texts? Do literary works produced in different cultures at the sametime "speak to each other" across time and space? The course will be runas a combination of lecture and small group discussion and will makeuse of web-based background materials to provide context and depth tothe readings.EN 0102 Introduction to Contemporary World Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.Students will review recent ﬁction from around the world, includingAfrica, Latin America, the Caribbean, New Zealand, and the Middle East.Students learn strategies for comparing stories and narrative stylesfrom different cultures, subject positions, and sociopolitical frameworks.Students develop a stronger awareness of different types of subjectivityin a global context. The course is suitable for non-majors seeking tofulﬁll the world diversity and English core requirements, and for Englishmajors who have not yet taken more than one course beyond EN 0011and EN 0012.EN 0103 Fairy Tales3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, FREN French CourseTaught in EnglishPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.A study of classic fairy tales in their oldest preserved versions byauthors like Charles Perrault and the Brothers Grimm; in nineteenth- andtwentieth-century literature influenced by the fairy tale tradition; in post-modern literary retellings; and in ﬁlm and popular culture. The class leadsto the production of a term paper involving research in primary sourcesand literary and folklore criticism.EN 0105 African Diaspora: Literature and Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course offers an interdisciplinary introduction to the AfricanDiaspora, incorporating texts from Africa, the Caribbean, North America,and Europe. Beginning with colonization in Africa and representationsof the Middle Passage, the course covers historical topics such asenslavement and the plantation system, abolition movements, migrationwithin and out of the Caribbean, resistance movements, the HarlemRenaissance, and independence struggles. As we study the Atlanticworld and globalization across several centuries, we will examine culturalsyncretism, commodity culture rooted in the Triangle Trade, and creativeendeavors in literature and the arts (painting and sculpture, ﬁlm, music,dance, theatre).EN 0106 Masterpieces of Greek Literature in English Translation3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course surveys major works of ancient Greek literature, emphasizingthe content of this literature as a key to understanding classical Greekcivilization and as meaningful in a contemporary context.EN 0107 Masterpieces of Roman Literature in EnglishTranslation3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course surveys major works of Roman literature of the republicand early empire, emphasizing the content of this literature as a key tounderstanding Roman civilization, and as meaningful in a contemporarycontext.EN 0108 Myth in Classical Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course introduces students to classical mythology through anexamination of the diverse ways in which myth and legend are treatedin the literatures of ancient Greece and Rome. Students read texts inEnglish translation; knowledge of Greek or Latin is not required.EN 0109 Greek Tragedy in English Translation3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.An intensive study in translation of the surviving works of Aeschylus,Sophocles and Euripides. Knowledge of Greek is not required.EN 0110 Major Works of European Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course surveys major works of world literature from ancient timesto the present. Because the works are chosen from a broad span ofcultures and periods, the course focuses on the function of literature:What kinds of stories do people tell about their societies? What are theirmajor concerns, and how are these represented in ﬁction? How can wecompare stories from one culture or period with those from another? Thecourse discusses genre and style as well as content. Texts may includethe Epic of Gilgamesh, as well as works by Boccaccio, Marguerite deNavarre, Madame de Lafayette, and Gabriel García Márquez.
EN 0111 International Short Fiction3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course examines works of short ﬁction from around the worldwritten during the twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centuries. The degree towhich - and the speciﬁc manners in which - these works contribute to acharacteristically modern sense of human existence and the functionof narrative art forms the basis for reading selections. Through textualanalysis, students compare and contrast various versions of the modernexperience as produced by authors such as Gogol, Melville, Mansﬁeld,Joyce, Lawrence, Cather, Tolstoy, Chekhov, Kafka, Hemingway, Lessing,Borges, Barth, Böll, Mishima, Achebe, Erdrich, and Atwood.EN 0112 19th-Century Russian Novel and World Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This comparative study of major Russian authors and their counterpartsin France, Germany, England, and the U.S. begins with short ﬁction andmoves to novels such as Père Goriot, Crime and Punishment, A Heroof Our Time, and Madame Bovary. Russian writers include Pushkin,Lermontov, Dostoevsky, Turgenev, and Tolstoy. Topics include the role ofmarriage and attitudes towards the family, urban versus rural experience- especially the role of the city, the fantastic in literature, narrativetechnique, and the development of 19th-century ﬁction.EN 0113 Literature of the Holocaust3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, GMEL German Majoror Minor Course, GMEN German Course Taught in English, HACAHumanitarian Action Minor Context Course, JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.After an introduction to the historical, political, and social background ofthe Holocaust, this course uses poetry, drama, ﬁction, non-ﬁction, art, andmusic to explore the genocide of Jews and other groups by Nazi Germany(1933-1945). The course seeks to discover what transpired during theHolocaust and what it means to our understanding of human nature andof our civilization. Readings and ﬁlms include Appelfeld's Badenheim1939, Spiegelman's Maus I & II, Frankl's Man's Search for Meaning,Wiesenthal's The Sunflower, Spielberg's "Schindler's List," Wiltsie's "TheGood German," and more.EN 0114 Caribbean Literature: History, Culture, and Identity3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, E_AF English Literature After 1800, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective,WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course serves as an introduction to the ﬁeld of Caribbean literaturesin English and English translation, with a focus on the French-speakingCaribbean. We survey a wide range of theoretical and ﬁctional texts(poetry, short stories, novels, theatre), and introduce students to thedebate surrounding the formation of Antillean cultural identity/identities.This course examines "Caribbean literatures" with respect to theirlanguage of origin, colonization, slavery, racial experience, landscape,migration, and diaspora, speciﬁcally in Haiti, Martinique, Guadeloupe,Barbados, Trinidad, Cuba, and the Netherlands Antilles/Surinam.EN 0115 Dante3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_BF EnglishLiterature Before 1800, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT ItalianStudies: ItalianPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course examines the works of Dante Alighieri, including the Vitanuova, in addition to the "Inferno," "Purgatorio," and "Paradiso" fromthe Divine Comedy. Students are introduced to the political, linguistic,theological, and poetic ideas that make Dante's works not only signiﬁcantin the medieval context, but also continue to challenge and informmodern debates.EN 0116 Rome in the Cultural Imagination3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The city of Rome has been a source of wonder and amazementthroughout recorded history. This course examines the foundation mythsof the Eternal City in contrast to the historical accounts, discusses earlyaccounts of the life of the city, evaluates the reasons for its decline andfall, considers the riches of Renaissance and Baroque periods, analyzespoetry by the Roman people, and examines Rome's centrality for theworld of art. This course, which is conducted in English, also focuseson the political importance of the city from its inception through theRisorgimento (Italian Uniﬁcation), to Fascism and World War II, to presentday.EN 0117 Introduction to Francophone Sub-Saharan AfricanCulture3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course taught in English explores the issues that confront Sub-Saharan Africa in its transformation from tradition to colonization, andﬁnally to independence through a large variety of literary texts (traditionaloral literature and modern written literature), critical theory, ﬁlms,music, and magazine and newspaper articles. Texts and ﬁlms will bediscussed from a multi-disciplinary perspective to illustrate their cultural,sociological, political, and religious import. Africa's geography and majorhistorical markers will be woven into the readings and discussions.EN 0118 Modern China through Fiction and Film3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.A study of various cultural aspects of modern China in the 20th centurythrough reading translated ﬁction as well as ﬁlms. Students exploretopics such as modernity, nationalism, individualism, gender, and culturalidentity in the modern cultural-historical context. Also will be discussedare issues particular to ﬁction and ﬁlm as representational modes: Howdo ﬁction and ﬁlm narrate history and the complex Chinese experience?How have they both been shaped by and contributed to the socio-culturaltransformations? And how do they represent the increasingly diversiﬁedcultural and social landscape of contemporary China?EN 0119 The City and Modern China3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The course studies the literary and visual representations of the cityin modern China through a sampling of stories, novels, photos, ﬁlms,and critical essays. Students discuss how literature and visual art bearwitnesses to the changing faces of the metropolis and urban life duringthe time of Chinese modernization and globalization and how the cityexpresses modern ethos, desires and paradoxes in literary works andﬁlms. All texts are in English. Films have subtitles.
EN 0120 American Women Playwrights3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course traces the evolution of plays by women from theRevolutionary War to plays reflecting the 21st-century concerns ofAfrican American, Asian, American, and Latina playwrights. Plays arediscussed in light of the social, political, and economic climates thatproduced them. Special emphasis is given to questions of sex, gender,race, ethnicity, and class, as we explore how American women, despiteconsiderable obstacles, have developed their own theatrical voices. Ourstudy is further informed by the work of feminist performance theorists.EN 0121 American Literature and the Environment3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, EVHU Environmental Studies: Humanities, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVPE Environmental Studies Elective, E_AFEnglish Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course aims to explore the ways in which ideas about the physical,"natural" environment have been shaped in American literature. Thecourse will survey a variety of important texts in this tradition andintroduce students to the scholarly perspective known as "Ecocriticism."Texts may include those by Austin, Cather, Leopold, Muir, Silko, Thoreau.EN 0122 The Frontier in American Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.For the last ﬁve centuries, the frontier -- understood as the place wherehumanity comes into contact with its apparent absence in the shapeof alien beings and landscapes -- has been the subject of some of themost lasting and powerful American stories. In this course, studentsconcentrate on some of the major representations of the frontierproduced between the 1820s and the present to learn how to recognizeand talk about the position that the American western has occupiedin our culture. Authors include Cooper, Twain, Cather, and McCarthy;ﬁlmmakers include Ford, Peckinpagh, and Eastwood.EN 0123 Ethnic American Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, E_AF English Literature After 1800, LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course focuses on stories from writers whose countries came incontact with American colonization. The course examines postcolonialthemes in a historical context, and asks what it means to be a writerwhose identity is formed by the diasporic flight of one's people. We beginwith theorizing postcoloniality and move to a study of 20th centurywriting by Puerto Rican, Filipino, Vietnamese, and other ethnic Americanwriters. Topics include the influences of English on vernacular literaturesand the relationship of the postcolonial to contemporary politics and art.EN 0124 American Literature: Myths and Legends3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.Our national literary tradition has been deﬁned by the stories we tellabout ourselves and our conversations about important social andpolitical issues, including race, reform, democracy, suffrage, NativeAmerican removal, class, technology, and Manifest Destiny. This courseexplores how literature reflects, constructs, and questions the dominantimage and understanding of the American identity from the Puritansthrough the nineteenth century. The course leads to developing a termpaper drawing on research and using literary criticism. Writers includeBradstreet, Franklin, Wheatley, Irving, Douglass, Poe, Whitman, Dickinson,James, and Twain.EN 0125 American Drama3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course examines the development of American theatre from the 18ththrough the 21st centuries. It includes a study and analysis of the specialproblems affecting the development and changes in American society asseen through American playwrighting and theatre production. Studentsread over twenty plays that grapple with issues of race, ethnicity, gender,class, and what it means to be an American. The course includes theatretrips.EN 0126 American Social Protest Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course explores the long tradition of non-violent social protest inAmerican literature. We examine how many writers have challenged theircontemporaries to become aware of important issues - race, women'srights, Native American activism, the environment, war, and poverty.Students keep a journal in which they reflect on the literature and developstrategies for changing themselves and the world around them. A ﬁnalproject asks students to consider ways to raise awareness about asocial issue at the University or in the larger community. Selected writersinclude Stowe, Davis, Thoreau, Crane, Douglass, Steinbeck, King, Wright,and Ginsberg.EN 0127 Romantic Love in Greek and Roman Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The course of true love never did run smooth. From Homer's Penelope toOvid's Remedies of Love we will examine the permutations of romanticdesire and its frustrations in the literature of Greece and Rome. Readingsalso include selections from Sappho's poetry, Sophocles' Women ofTrachis, Euripides' Phaedra and Medea, comedies by Menander andTerence, Catullus' poems to Lesbia, Vergil's tale of Dido and Aeneas,selections from the elegies of Tibullus, Sulpicia, Propertius and Ovid,and briefer excerpts from other authors. All readings are in Englishtranslation.
EN 0128 Cities in Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course offers a comparative, cross-cultural approach to literatureabout the city, focusing primarily on ﬁction from the nineteenth centuryto the present. Beginning with a novel by Balzac, stories by Gogol andDostoevsky, and poetry by Baudelaire and Whitman, we discuss topicsincluding detective narratives, the ﬁgure of the flÃ¢neur, the country/city dichotomy, the crowd, the metropolis and mental life, and the rise ofan urban middle class. In texts by authors such as James Joyce, EdithWharton, Naguib Mahfouz, Monica Ali, Edward P. Jones, and PaulettePoujol-Oriol, issues surrounding gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, andcitizenship emerge as central topics.EN 0129 American Short Story3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The American Short Story covers the rise of this genre form from theearly Nineteenth Century beginning with Poe and continues through therealistic/naturalistic periods up through modernist and post-modernistmovement through the present. Some of the authors studied include Poe,Hawthorne, Melville, Crane, Twain, Cather, McCullers, Welty, O'Connor,Hemingway, Faulkner, Roth, Updike, O'Brien, Lahiri.EN 0130 Literature by Women: Vision and Revision3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This study of transatlantic, post-1800 literature by women will adoptVirginia Woolf's notion that "books continue each other." The coursewill be anchored in such "touchstone" texts as Jane Austen's Prideand Prejudice, Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre, and Edith Wharton's TheHouse of Mirth. Each touchstone work will be grouped with a number ofsubsequent literary texts responding to and/or revising the earlier work.Readings will reach across centuries and continents. Topics includethe social constructions of race, sexuality, gender, class, and beauty,intertextuality, influence, and canon formation.EN 0131 Contemporary Women Writers of Color3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC Black StudiesComponent Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, PJST Peace andJustice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course focuses on works by Latinas, Native, Asian American, andAfrican American women writers, as well as moving beyond the bordersof the U.S.to include writers from the Americas, emphasizing the decadesfrom the 1970s to the present. We consider the intersectionality of race,ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and socio-economic class, as these contributeto concepts of identity - for both the individual and the community.Authors may include Gloria Anzaldúa, Leslie Marmon Silko, LouiseErdrich, Lan Cao, Nora Okja Keller, Sky Lee, Ana Castillo, Carla Trujillo,Achy Obejas, Loida Maritza Pérez, Danzy Senna, Dorothy West, and ChitraDiakaruni.EN 0132 20th Century Russian Fiction3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.In this comparative study, students read works by Russian and Sovietauthors in tandem with texts by novelists from Eastern Europe, Asia, andthe Americas. From the Silver Age, the course move to post-Revolutionaryﬁction and versions of dystopia, considers exile, dislocation, relocation,and dual identity, then examines the effects of the Stalin years, andconcludes with contemporary ﬁction of the post-Soviet era. The coursesets the literature with its historical, political, and cultural contexts,incorporating material from the arts, as well.EN 0133 The African American Literary Tradition3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, BSFC Black Studies FocusCourse, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This survey course examines the development of African Americanliterature from the late eighteenth century to the present, with a focus onissues of literacy, authority, and identity. The course traces this tradition'shistory from Phillis Wheatley's role in deﬁning American poetry andOlaudah Equiano's Interesting Narrative, to the narratives of enslavementby authors such as Harriet Jacobs and Frederick Douglass, to the NewNegro Renaissance, the Civil Rights Movement, and contemporaryAfrican American ﬁction and poetry. Formerly EN 0253.EN 0134 20th Century Jewish American Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.Storytelling is central to Jewish identity and search for meaning, fromthe Old Testament to graphic novels and comic books about Jewish lifeand culture after the Holocaust. Twentieth-century American Jewishwriting strongly influenced TV, ﬁlm, Broadway, social justice movementsand more, reaching out to the widest range of American audiences. Thiscourse surveys American Jewish literature's use of Yiddish and Jewishethnic and historical sources to produce lasting and relevant Americanprose, drama, poetry, and ﬁlm.EN 0135 Graphic Novels as Thriller and Chillers3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course will introduce students to the idea of graphic novels asliterature that deals with serious subjects -- ranging from social, political,cultural, to race-based and sexually sensitive issues -- in ways thatare hyperbolically dramatic and/or humorous. It has a strong digitalcomponent and students will be asked to work with and use a rangeof multimodal tools such as blogs, Wiki, Twitter, Animoto, and visualstory-telling. Students will be trained to grasp the fact the graphic novelsoften reflect historical events, prominent ideological and socio-culturalattitudes of the time, and span the spectrum from propelling propagandato mounting a critique. The graphic novel, also called a comic, has alwaysenjoyed a loyal fan base, mostly amongst the younger generations.
EN 0136 Book Histories and Futures: Literature in Times of MediaChange3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The book is a long-established symbol of knowledge and a vessel ofliterary culture, but the digital revolution has complicated its meaning.This course explores the book's current cultural status and its longerhistory, as both an object and expressive form. Students will chart thebook’s evolution through both historical and theoretical accounts, andliterary works that embody and thematically explore these changes.Students will primarily use the techniques of traditional literary analysis,but will also incorporate methods from related disciplines such as visualand new-media studies, narratology, digital humanities, and book studiesto address the course’s formally diverse texts.EN 0141 Imagining Shakespeare3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.Shakespeare is considered the greatest writer in the English language.This course will investigate how his genius is expressed in comedy,history, tragedy, and romance. We will study how each kind of playinfluences the others in every part of Shakespeare's career. Plays includeThe Taming of the Shrew, Richard III, A Midsummer Night's Dream, HenryIV, Twelfth Night, Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, The Winter's Tale, and TheTempest. We will take a multimedia approach by analyzing performancesas well as text. The history of Shakespeare's era and of his critics will bestudied as well.EN 0142 Myths and Legends of Ireland and Britain3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course studies the literature of early medieval cultures of Irelandand Great Britain, with special attention to Celtic culture. The course isdivided into four parts, focusing on the Irish Táin Bó Cuailnge, the WelshMabinogion, the Latin Christian legends of Celtic saints, and the OldEnglish epic Beowulf. Critical issues for discussion include: paganismand Christianity; conceptions of law, kinship, and nationhood; warriorculture and the idea of the hero; the status of art and poetry; orality andliteracy; the natural and the supernatural; the construction of gender.EN 0143 The Greenworld: English Literature and theEnvironment3 CreditsAttributes: EVHU Environmental Studies: Humanities, EVMEEnvironmental Studies Major Elective, EVPE Environmental StudiesElective, E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.A survey of prose, poetry, and drama, the focus of this course is onthe "Greenworld" in early modern English literature. The "Greenworld"encompasses all visions of the natural world - forests, gardens, oceans,caves, parks, animals, etc. - as represented in many different aestheticforms. Students will be introduced to a number of environmental studiestopics, including land dispossession, natural disasters, New Worldplantations, land stewardship, and animal rights, as these topics appearin literature. Course readings range broadly from Virgil, Montaigne, andShakespeare to James Cameron's "Avatar," and from the philosophicaltransactions of the Royal Society to transcriptions of witchcraft trials.EN 0145 King Arthur3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.A survey of the literature of the legend of Arthur, from ancient Celticfragments and references to medieval chivalric romances, and on tomodern reinterpretations in poems, novels, and ﬁlm. Particular focuson the romances of Marie de France, Chrétien de Troyes, Sir ThomasMalory, and the anonymous author of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.Attention to such themes as: the construction of nationality; the tensionbetween the individual and culture; the stylized representation of genderand class; the interplay of reality and fantasy; theories of authorship andaudience; connections to history-writing and to other literary genres.EN 0161 Irish Literature3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_AF EnglishLiterature After 1800Prerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.The course studies the deep connections between the literature andhistory of Ireland from 1800 to the present. Building on EN 0011 andEN 0012, it further develops the ability to read literature closely (toanalyze and interpret the ﬁgurative language and stylistic features ofﬁction, drama, and poetry) and to write convincingly about the meaningsand ideas that such close reading yields. It also adds to this skill byteaching students to recognize and articulate the inherent links betweenliterature, history, and culture - links which are particularly evident inmodern Irish writing, and which are revealed through close reading.EN 0162 Irish Women Writers3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_AF EnglishLiterature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies:Gender FocusedPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.A study of women writers both Anglo and Gaelic, from 19th-centuryﬁction to 20th-century poetry. The course focuses on the cross-cultural differences between these two groups, one privileged, the othermarginalized, and perhaps who share only a common language. Besideswomen's issues - education, emigration, marriage, motherhood, andequality - the themes include the Big House, colonization, the LiteraryRevival, folklore, theology, the tradition of the storyteller, and the roles ofreligion and politics in the society. Among the authors to be explored areMaria Edgeworth, Lady Morgan, Somerville and Ross, Elizabeth Bowen,Lady Gregory, Marina Carr, Peig Sayers, Mary Lavin, Edna O'Brien, Eilis NiDhuibhne, Eavan Boland, Nula Ni Dhomhnaill, and Medbh McGuckian.EN 0163 The Literature of Illness and Healing: Wounded Storytellers andDedicated Healers3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, UDIVU.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.What is it like to suffer a stroke, contend with cancer, deal withdepression or live with a crippling disease? While biomedicine mayclinically treat such conditions, it is to literature that we turn to gaina humanistic understanding of the emotional and spiritual impact ofillness on wounded storytellers and on the dedicated doctors and nurseswho care for them. Readings in various literary genres- memoir, essay,poetry, ﬁction, drama- and ﬁlms with medical themes will also exploreissues of diversity, noting how gender, race, ethnicity, religion and sexualorientation affect the illness experience.
EN 0170 Writing the Self: Autobiography3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.Autobiography holds a special place in its presentation of the writer'sself, enlisting the reader's belief in the author's "confession" whilecrossing the line between ﬁctional work and truth. This course examinesautobiography and related genres, including memoir, diaries, and personalessays and considers their purpose: what do these authors reveal aboutthemselves, and why? How much is convention, how much is truth? Whatimpact do race, gender, class, nationhood, and ethnicity have on theconstruction of identity? Writers may include Franklin, Shepard, Douglass,Barnum, Johnson, Winnemucca, Zitkala-Sa, Malcolm X, Wright, Baldwin,Stein, Walker, and Cisneros.EN 0171 Literature and the Visual Arts3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This interdisciplinary course will examine the dynamic relationshipbetween literature and the visual arts. Special attention will be paid toliterature written in English during the 19th and 20th centuries - a timewhen writers and cultural critics were increasingly interested in thevisual arts in general (painting, sculpture, photography, ﬁlm, etc.) andthe impact of the new mass media in particular. These artists forged aunique and signiﬁcant relationship between their bodies of work and thevisual arts; several of the writers studied worked in the tradition knownas "ekphrasis" (e.g., poems "speaking" to a work of art). Writers of focusmight include Blake, Poe, the Brownings, the Rossettis, Siddall, Wilde,Wharton, and Larsen.EN 0172 Literacy and Language3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: EN 0011, EN 0012.This course examines the concept of literacy as it is represented inﬁction and non-ﬁction texts. Reading widely -- in memoirs, essays, ﬁction,creative non-ﬁction, and drama -- we will consider individual experienceswith literacy, language, and schooling, as well as the relationship betweenliteracy and power. The course includes a service learning experience thatconnects issues from the course to the real context of a local elementaryschool.EN 0202 American Poetry3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course surveys a range of signiﬁcant works of American poetry.It is an introduction to various movements (e.g., transcendentalism ormodernism), various schools (e.g., New Formalism), and the turn to amulti-lingual and multi-vocal poetry found in the Harlem Renaissance andSpoken Word movements. The course pays particular attention to form,while grounding understanding of form within a socio-historical context.Readings may range from Walt Whitman, Emily Dickinson, William CarlosWilliams, Elizabeth Bishop, Wallace Stevens, Gwendolyn Brooks, RobertFrost, Langston Hughes, Pedro Pietri, Joy Harjo, and others.EN 0203 English Epic3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.Study of large-scale, verse narratives created or received as Englishnational epics, or composed in the epic tradition. Texts will represent themajor time periods of earlier English literary history: Beowulf from theOld English period; Sir Gawain and the Green Knight or Morte d'Arthurfrom the Middle English period; excerpts from Spenser's Faerie Queenefrom the Elizabethan period; Milton's Paradise Lost from the seventeenthcentury; Pope's Rape of the Lock from the eighteenth century. Criticalattention will be paid throughout to changing and competing conceptionsof England, nation, and epic.EN 0204 Literary Fairy Tale Tradition3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course is a survey of the fairy tale as a literary genre which tracesthe development of the literary tradition from sixteenth-century Italy tothe Brothers Grimm and nineteenth-centuries authors including HansChristian Andersen and Oscar Wilde, and studies Charlotte Brontë'sJane Eyre to note connections to the genre of the novel. Also followsthe persistence of fairy tales in modern, post-modern, and contemporaryﬁction, and in popular ﬁlm. Requirements include a research paper on afairy tale or author of the student's choosing. Not to be taken by studentswho have taken EN 0103.EN 0207 Contemporary American Novel3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.The Contemporary American Novel covers the past 30 years of this genreform. The course introduces the student to on-going developments in therealistic novel as well as post-modernist forms such as magical realismand metaﬁction, as well as the novel of social criticism. Some of thewriters studied include Philip Roth, Marilynne Robinson, Elizabeth Strout,Ann Patchett, Cormac McCarthy, Toni Morrison, Edward P. Jones, JeffreyEugenides, Charles Frazier, Jonathan Lethem, Ha Jin.EN 0211 Age of Chaucer3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_BF EnglishLiterature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A survey of the literature of late-medieval England, focusing on itsrichest period, the second half of the fourteenth century - the age ofChaucer and his contemporaries. Students will gain access to the MiddleEnglish language, and study examples of the main genres of medievalliterature, including religious and secular lyric, mystical writing, courtlyromance, religious drama, chronicle, and comic narrative. Literaturewill be considered within its social and historical contexts, with specialattention to representations of social order, and challenges to that order,notably the Great Rebellion of 1381.EN 0213 Shakespeare I3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.In the ﬁrst half of Shakespeare's career, comedy, tragedy, and historyplays express both the spirit of the Elizabethan age and their ownidentities as different genres that reference each other. A MidsummerNight's Dream, Romeo and Juliet, Henry IV, and Much Ado About Nothingare among a selection of ten plays that explore dimensions of love,religion, and politics. We learn how critics have approached Shakespearein many different ways, and how to evaluate and respond to criticalopinion. Multimedia presentations show how performance and textcombined enrich our understanding of this great writer.
EN 0214 Shakespeare II3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.The second half of Shakespeare's career begins with bright Elizabethancomedies (As You Like It, Twelfth Night) and transitions to the darkerJacobean tragedies (Hamlet, Othello, King Lear). These troubling modernvisions lead through problem plays to the antiheroic late tragedies andthe romances (The Tempest), exploring issues of racism, colonialism,and social justice. We learn how critics have approached Shakespeare inmany different ways, and how to evaluate and respond to critical opinion.Multimedia presentations show how performance and text combinedenrich our understanding of this great writer.EN 0215 Introduction to 18th Century British Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This selective survey of 18th-century English literature includes authorssuch as Pope, Swift, Gray, Jonson, Boswell, Goldsmith, Burns, andMontague.EN 0216 Victorian Poetry and Poetics3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course examines the poetry and theories of poetry posited byVictorian men and women who explored concepts of identity vis-à-visVictorian notions of culture, religion, science, politics, and sexuality.Beginning with Arnold and ending with Wilde, the course covers bothpoetry and literary movements such as Pre-Raphaelitism, Decadence,aestheticism, and symbolism.EN 0217 Romantics, Victorians, Moderns: British Literature1800-19503 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A survey of three distinct but overlapping periods in British literary history- Romantic, Victorian, and Modern. As much a study of ideas as of literaryworks, the course examines the crucial ideological, philosophical, andcultural transformations that shape each of these important literary eras.EN 0218 20th Century British Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A survey of major developments in twentieth-century British, Irish, andAnglophone Post-colonial literature. 20th-Century England is shapedby rapid technological changes, the breakdown of Victorian moresand orthodox beliefs, the devastation of the Great War, the adventof psychoanalysis, and the height and decline of the British empire.Students learn to recognize and evaluate how these events relate tothe new, experimental styles of Modern, Postmodern, and Postcolonialwriting. Authors studied range from early ﬁgures such as Joseph Conrad,Virginia Woolf, W.B. Yeats, and James Joyce to contemporary stars suchas Kazuo Ishiguro, J.M. Coetzee, and Zadie Smith.EN 0231 Early American Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, E_BF English LiteratureBefore 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A study of the origins of literature of the Americas with an emphasison the Puritans and early Republic through 1830. We begin with theoral history of Native Americans and the literature of colonization andexploration. We also explore the rich tradition of spiritual autobiography,poetry, narrative history, and sermons among the Puritans. Turning tothe eighteenth-century, we examine captivity narratives and democraticwriting of the Revolutionary period, with an emphasis on the impact ofthe slave trade, colonization, Independence, and contemporary issues ofthe post-colonial period.EN 0233 American Literature: 20th Century to the Present3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A survey of 20th Century American Literature to the present within thesocio-historical context of diverse and overlapping literary and culturaltraditions of the United States, such as (though not limited to) NativeAmerican, African American, Anglo American, and Asian American.Writers might include Eliot, Hemingway, Faulkner, Yezierska, Hughes,Hurston, McNickle, Bellow, Okada, Kerouac, Rich, Plath, Welch, Gaines,Jen.EN 0234 American Women Writers of the 19th Century3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderFocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A study of American female writers who have made an impact on theworld through their ﬁction, journalism, or poetry. The course is organizedthematically around a set of topics related to nineteenth-century women'slives and selves: gender and domesticity, suffrage, slavery, labor, frontierlife, sexuality, and social activism. African-American and Native-Americanwomen's writings and those of other ethnicities also form an integral partof the tradition. Writers may include Alcott, Beecher, Cary, Child, Chopin,Dickinson, Fern, Freeman, Gilman, Jacobs, Kirkland, Harper, Keckley,Jewett, Piatt, Ruiz de Burton, Sin Far, Spofford, Stowe, and Wharton.EN 0235 Edith Wharton and Her Circle3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderFocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A study of ﬁction by American realist Edith Wharton in the context of herpeers, including writers she read and those she inspired. While Whartonserves as a focal point, the course also examines the works and ideasof such influential ﬁgures as Balzac, Flaubert, Maupassant, Chekhov,James, Crane, Dreiser, and Freeman, as well as adaptations of Whartonianthemes by such novelists as Larsen, Bushnell, von Ziegesar and Tóibín.Topics include the social construction of "whiteness," the art of socialclimbing, turn-of-the-century gender crises involving masculinity and theNew Woman, and the social and cultural transformations wrought by themodern city.
EN 0262 The Harlem Renaissance3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC BlackStudies Focus Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S.DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course examines African American literature and culture fromWashington's Up from Slavery and Du Bois's The Souls of BlackFolk, through the 1920s and the Great Depression, to the eve of U.S.participation in World War II. Grounded in U.S history, the course exploresﬁction, poetry, and other forms of cultural production such as painting,sculpture, ﬁlm, and music. It examines the aftermath of Reconstruction,the effects of the Great Migration, and the responses to Du Bois's call fora "Talented Tenth." The Harlem Renaissance provides the major focus,as do the debates about whether there was such a movement at all. Thecourse looks towards the development of a contemporary Black traditionin literature and culture.EN 0263 African American Women Writers3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC BlackStudies Focus Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S.Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course offers a survey of writing by African American womenfrom the mid-nineteenth century to the present, focusing primarily onautobiography and ﬁction. Beginning with Jacobs's Incidents in the Lifeof a Slave Girl and examining late-nineteenth-century ﬁction by authorssuch as Harper, the course examines issues of redeﬁning womanhood,participating in racial uplift, and coming to voice as both women and aswriters. Moving through the twentieth century and into the twenty-ﬁrst,the course may include writers such as Larsen, Fauset, Hurston, Petry,Morrison, Lorde, Naylor, Sapphire, Blackman, Youngblood, and Packer.EN 0264 African American Fiction, 1940 to Present3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, BSAH Black Studies:Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, E_AF EnglishLiterature After 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A comparative study of novels by African American men and women,beginning with Richard Wright and Ann Petry in the 1940s, continuingthrough the 50s and 60s with writers such as Ralph Ellison, GwendolynBrooks, James Baldwin, and Alice Walker, and ending with major novelistsfrom the 1970s, such as Charles Johnson, Toni Cade Bambara, ErnestGaines, and Toni Morrison. The course focuses on topics such asfamily, religion, education, and urban experience, education, gender andsexuality, and shifting deﬁnitions of Blackness. Narrative techniques offera main thread of discussion throughout the course.EN 0274 Modernism in World Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.A survey of the international literary movement known as"Modernism" (roughly 1890-1930, though earlier and later ﬁgures areoften included). The radical aesthetics of literary Modernism respond tothe rapid social and political transformations of the 20th century and toinnovative styles in the visual arts, ﬁlm, music, and architecture. Theyare also controversial: Are these new styles subversive or reactionary?The art of Europe's elite or the art of a global revolution? Students learnto debate these issues in an informed way, and produce core-integrativeprojects that explore the connections between modernist literature andother ﬁelds of study.EN 0275 Modern Women Writers3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course examines the work of late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century American and British "sisters in error" (as described by poetDilys Laing). We consider literature and its contexts - social, historical,political, ideological, artistic, and more. Among the concerns raised bythese women are the following: the body, sexuality, marriage, motherhood,domesticity, vocation, the making of art and the artist, the homosocial,patriarchy, the struggle for individuality, relations between the sexes,tensions between True Woman and New Woman, and what it means to be"modern." The reading list embraces ﬁction, poetry, drama, and nonﬁctionprose. Writers of focus may include Bowen, Chopin, Dinesen, Eaton,Gilman, Glaspell, Hurston, Larsen, Mansﬁeld, O'Connor, Parker, Porter,Spencer, West, Wharton, and Woolf.EN 0281 Native American Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course focuses on novels, short stories, and poems written by NativeAmerican writers during the 20th century. For purposes of background,the course also covers a number of signiﬁcant works composed prior tothis century. Students examine texts primarily for their literary value, butalso consider the broad image of Native American culture that emergesfrom these works. The course also examines the philosophical, historical,and sociological dimensions of the material.EN 0282 Latin@ Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This is an introductory course on the literature produced by Latinos inthe U.S. The course approaches the subject from an interdisciplinarylens, examining the literature from not only the tools available in literarystudies but history and sociology, as well. The course will addresshistorical, contemporary political and socioeconomic issues affectingLatinos (the most historically prevalent of which have been immigrationstatus, language regulation, and racial/ethnic discrimination) andconnect them to cultural production. We read such authors as SandraCisneros, Junot Díaz, Ed Vega Yunque, various Nuyorican and ChicanoPoets, and others to better understand the literary and cultural productsof the now largest minority group in the U.S. Course readings anddiscussions are in English. Spanglish is welcomed.EN 0283 Asian Diasporas: Challenges to Citizenship3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800, HACA HumanitarianAction Minor Context Course, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course examines the explosion of Asian American ﬁction/cinema tostudy diasporic, migratory, refugee, socio-cultural and ethnic identities.Together with ﬁction and cinema, we will study historical and politicaldocuments that deal with the interpellation of citizenship challenges ofIndian, Afghan, Pakistani, Chinese, Japanese, Bangladeshi, Vietnamese,Korean, Hawaiian-Paciﬁc, and Sri Lankan subjects as seek to beintegrated into the State and into US cultures. We study how AsianAmericans authors assert their presence to claim American citizenship,while challenging racist, sexist, and xenophobic stereotypes of "aliens" asoutsiders and foreigners.
EN 0291 Gender and Sexualilty in Film and Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course examines the way gender and sexuality are representedin ﬁlm and literature, beginning with an overview of lesbians and gaysin ﬁlm history with Vito Russo's The Celluloid Closet. The course thenmoves through popular ﬁlms and novels from the 1960s to the presentday, looking at the ways attitudes about gender are enmeshed withrepresentations of homosexuality. Themes and topics include: What isthe relationship between gender and sexuality? How are concepts ofmasculinity and femininity presented in novels and on screen? How havethese representations changed as our culture's rules about gender andsexuality have become less rigid? The course aims to develop an analysisof current cultural assumptions about gender and sexuality, as they arerevealed in ﬁlm and literature.EN 0292 Contemporary Children's Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level English literature course.This course explores children's literature published in the United Statesbetween 1950 and the present. The course will give you both the chanceto re-acquaint yourself with books that you enjoyed as a child andencounter books you missed when you were young. You will developwhat critic U.C. Knoepflmacher calls "the double perspective," that is, theability to consider books written for children as both a child and an adultreader. You will read literary criticism on children's literature, as well asinformation on careers in children's books publishing.EN 0311 Chaucer's Canterbury Tales3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_BF EnglishLiterature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course introduces students to Middle English language andliterature through a close study of the poetry of Geoffrey Chaucer,focusing on his Canterbury Tales. Students analyze the stylistic formsand representations of 14th-century society through tales, selected fortheir generic and stylistic variety, that include the tragic and the comic,the sacred and the profane.EN 0314 Renaissance Eros3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course explores eroticism in literature and visual culture in theItalian and English Renaissance(s), a time period from the late fourteenthcentury to the early seventeenth century. Topics of study include desire,sexual love, and beauty; the philosophy of friendship; the legacy ofPetrarchanism; the pervasiveness of same-sex desire; cross-classrelationships; and female sovereignty. The course offers a variety ofinterpretive models to analyze the complex role of eros in the works ofPetrarch, Boccaccio, Plato, Shakespeare, Lyly, Marlow, and Montaigne.EN 0316 Theoretical Readings of 19th Century Novels3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course discusses and debates the meaning of "decadence" as anaesthetic and literary category. Beginning with the works of the pre-Raphaelites in mid-19th-century England, moving to Walter Pater andOscar Wilde in the Victorian era, and then into Europe with Baudelaire,Flaubert, and Mann, the course focuses upon the role of pleasurein European cultures. Paintings by Moreau, Delacroix, and Ingrescomplement the understanding of the literary texts. The course treatsmetaphors of Salome as a femme-fatale and literary characters suchas Huysmans' Des Esseintes or Wilde's Dorian Gray as models forbehavior: ﬁgures in a typology of unorthodox self-fashioning. Theoreticalframeworks posited by Adorno and Benjamin will be used to query theconstrictions and deconstructions of the European self in that criticalcusp between the centuries.EN 0317 Advanced Studies in 20th Century British Literature3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.An intensive study of an important theme, topic, or debate that spansmost or all of the 20th century in British literature. Possible topicsinclude: the distinction between modernism and postmodernism; thesigniﬁcance and value of aesthetic innovation; interrogation of the Britishempire; imperial cultural traditions and their aftermath; deﬁning andredeﬁning "Britishness" from modernity through the contemporary globaland transnational era; history, memory, and narrative; poetry, poetics, andsocial change.EN 0319 James Joyce3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_AF EnglishLiterature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.An intensive study of James Joyce's comic novel Ulysses, emphasizingthorough close reading of the text, understanding the work relative toJoyce's other ﬁctional masterpieces, and extensive reading of relatedcriticism and scholarship. Highly recommended: students should haveread at least one complete work by James Joyce before taking thecourse.EN 0321 Life and Print Culture in 18th Century London3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.What was it like to live in eighteenth-century London? This course willexplore daily life in London from the Great Fire to the French Revolution,using novels alongside other forms of popular literature -- pamphlets,ballads, broadsides, cookbooks, and newspapers -- to trace what ordinarypeople talked about and care about in their workaday world. Popular artsuch as Hogarth's engravings will show us what London and its peoplelooked like. The course will investigate how to evaluate and discuss allforms of popular print culture within the larger context of literature.
EN 0332 American Romanticism3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course explores transcendentalism and romanticism during theflowering of intellectual and social life in America from 1830 to 1865.Studying the transatlantic origins of this movement in philosophy,religion, and literature, we examine how these writers responded toliterary influences and crafted their unique style. The course alsofocuses on the relationship between literature and American culture,including a study of the visual arts and material culture. Authors includeEmerson, Fuller, Thoreau, Alcott, Poe, Hawthorne, Melville, Douglass,Davis, Whitman, and Dickinson.EN 0333 American Realism and Naturalism3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course examines the literary modes of representation known asrealism and naturalism. We will consider the ways in which literaturerepresents, responds to, and shapes the extraordinary transformations inAmerican culture from 1865 through the turn into the twentieth century.The course will consider literature and its contexts - social, historical,political, ideological, artistic, and so on. Writers may include Chesnutt,Chopin, Crane, Davis, Dreiser, Du Bois, Eaton, Freeman, Gilman, Howells,James, Jewett, Norris, Twain, Washington, and Wharton.EN 0334 American Modernism3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course explores the wide ranging cultural dynamics of Americanliterary modernism (roughly 1920-1950) in the works of writers such asHurston, Hemingway, Yezierska, Eliot, Hughes, Falkner, Matthews. Topicsto discuss include, but are not limited to, time, space, gender, nationality,race, and ethnicity.EN 0335 Contemporary American Literature and Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course examines signiﬁcant developments in American Literatureand Culture from the period following World War II to the present. Thecourse explores the turn to cultural studies in the ﬁeld of literary studiesthat occurred during this period, allowing us to examine non-traditionalliterary texts such as music, ﬁlm, graphic novels, and games. We groundour discussion heavily in literary theory.EN 0336 Seminar on Toni Morrison3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, PJST Peace andJustice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.A comprehensive study of the works of Toni Morrison, the coursesituates her novels and nonﬁction prose in their historical and culturalcontexts. Attention to narrative techniques as well as to theoreticalapproaches from a range of disciplines offers students the opportunityto explore topics including gender and slavery, violence and trauma,identity construction, Black masculinity, commodity culture and racializedidentity, law and civil rights, accommodation and resistance, familystructures, community, geography and location/dislocation/relocation,ethics and relation, and Black female sexualities.EN 0351 Literary Theory3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.The course examines the major theoretical approaches to the studyof literature that developed in relation to important political andintellectual movements of the twentieth century. Despite highlysigniﬁcant differences, we presuppose that all literary theories posesimilar questions: What is literature? Why does literature matter, and howdo critics assign aesthetic value? This course studies the way variousschools of theories have answered these questions. Included in ourstudy are Formalism/New Criticism, Poststructuralism, Psychoanalyticcriticism, Feminist theory, Gender and Queer Studies, Postcolonialism,and others. Course readings range broadly from Kant to Derrida, Freud toSpivak.EN 0352 Cultural Studies Theory3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This interdisciplinary course examines the concept of culture as it isconstructed, sustained, and contested within the United States and theUnited Kingdom. Readings focus on the history, theory, and practice ofculture (high and mass) in the two countries. Class discussions focuson the interactive impact of our understanding of the term "culture" uponcontemporary societies as it factors into nationhood, race, gender, class,sexuality, and media. As a way of understanding the various theoriesthat undergird the experiential manifestations of culture, students willbe exposed to print/visual texts and multimedia forms of expressionscirculating in society.EN 0353 Representations3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course focuses on "ways of seeing" and the "gaze" that areconstructed and maintained in contemporary culture within the conceptof representation. The course balances on the margins of textualand visual materials (paintings and ﬁlms); offers an interdisciplinarytheoretical base; examines the presentation and representation of self,subject, and identity as narrative, biography, and autobiography; andquestions notions of realism and politics of realism as manifestedby deploying race, class, nationality, sexuality, and gender. By readingtheoretical tracts on the ways of seeing and by using ﬁlms and visualart to test these theoretical materials, students critique contemporarynotions of seeing and being seen.EN 0354 Theories of Globalization3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course teaches students how globalization is deﬁned by majortheorists and how to interpret the effects of its massive and randomforces. Students grasp the differences between economic, political, andcultural explanations and the actual impact of globalization. The theoriesare tested against new literatures to see how novelists manipulate theforces of globalization - such as explaining the feminization of poverty,ethnic cleansing, human rights violations, access to natural resourceslike water and land, terrorisms and proliferation of nuclear arms, religiousfundamentalisms - through their characters. One of the crucial andconsistent foci of class discussions is exploration of ethical ways todeal with globalization, the potential for civic engagement, and theresponsibility we all share in creating a global civil society.
EN 0371 Comedy3 CreditsAttributes: E_BF English Literature Before 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course studies various forms of literary, dramatic, and ﬁlm comedy,emphasizing how comic writers and directors use structure, character,tone, and convention to create comic forms, including festive comedy,satire, comedy of manners, farce, and black comedy. Weekly short papersengage critical theories of humor and of comedy as literary and socialform. Authors and directors include Voltaire, Molière, Austen, Shaw,Huxley, Beckett, Heller, Kubrick, Stoppard, Nichols, Hallström, Lee, Coen.EN 0372 All About Eve3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_BF EnglishLiterature Before 1800, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies:Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course surveys the literary and artistic representation of thelegendary ﬁrst woman of the Judeo-Christian tradition from Genesis tothe present, with attention to both feminist and antifeminist traditions.The course centers on a reading of Milton's Paradise Lost. Other authorsinclude Christine de Pizan, Aemilia Lanyer, Mary Wollstonecraft, MarkTwain, and Ursula Le Guin. In a ﬁnal research paper, students locate andinterpret depictions of Eve in contemporary popular culture. Non-Englishsources are read in English translation.EN 0373 Literature for Young Adults3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800Prerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.During the past two decades, adolescent literature has proliferated, grownmore diverse, and improved in richness and quality. The course exploresthe major current authors, poets, and illustrators of works written foryoung adults. Topics include theories and purposes of reading literaturein the classroom; criteria development for evaluating adolescentliterature; reader response in the classroom; reading workshop; andadolescent literature integration across the curriculum.EN 0374 The Woman Question: Early Feminism and 19th CenturyTransatlantic Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course will examine the issue properly known as the WomanQuestion through some of the major works of 19th-century literature.Because the philosophical and political debates concerning Woman's rolepreoccupied not only 19th-century America but also Victorian Britain, wewill consider American and British discussions as part of a transatlanticconversation. The course begins with early Victorian literature, movingacross the Atlantic to the 1840s and 50s, when a group of "domesticfeminists" became the most popular writers in the U.S. The course closesat the ﬁn de siècle, when the conventions of sentimental ﬁction and"True Womanhood" were being superseded by realism and naturalism,and when an explicitly anti-domestic image of womanhood began to beformulated around the ﬁgure of the "New Woman." Authors may includeBrontë, Fuller, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Stowe, Fern, Jacobs, ChristinaRossetti, Taylor, Mill, Patmore, Linton, Dickinson, Alcott, James, Ibsen,Harper, Gilman, Chopin, Freeman, and Wharton.EN 0375 Caribbean Women Writers3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC BlackStudies Component Course, EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, E_AFEnglish Literature After 1800, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV WorldDiversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course offers a Pan-Caribbean study of women's writing, primarilycontemporary ﬁction. Setting the novels in a context that begins in theMiddle Passage or comparable forced migration to the Americas, weexamine the interconnections between those traumatic experiencesand the relations established and demanded by imperialism. Topics fordiscussion include spaces and languages of resistance; genealogies,family trees, roots; memory and exile; political activism and itsconsequences; labor and socioeconomics; the role of education incolonialism and in immigrant life; and challenges to conventionalcategories of identity. Authors may include Marshall, Hopkinson, Kincaid,Condé, Danticat, Santiago, Santos-Febres, Obejas, McWatt, Brand, Collins,Mootoo, Espinet, Lara, and John.EN 0376 Global Women's Fiction3 CreditsAttributes: E_AF English Literature After 1800, WDIV World Diversity,WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This comparative study of ﬁctional works by women begins with adiscussion of issues raised in Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own,and focuses on writers from the early twentieth century to the present.Drawn from a wide range of world literatures and cultures, authors mayinclude Aleramo, Djebar, al-Shaykh. Aidoo, Truong, Valenzuela, Menéndez,Roy, Dangarembga, Gordimer, Olsson, Rachlin, and Lispector. Topicsinclude narrative techniques, women's relationship to the polis, women'sparticipation in public culture and their artistic creativity, gender andsexuality, cross-class relations between women, and contemporaryissues linked to globalization.EN 0377 Urban Texts and Contexts: NYC3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, E_AF English Literature After 1800, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: One 100-level or 200-level English literature course.This course explores literary and visual evocations of the city from aninterdisciplinary and theoretical perspective. In many ways, a city is asmuch a mental construct as a physical one, referred to as image, idea,myth, metaphor, vision, catalyst, and more. The course considers howsuch terms apply to representations of a metropolis, as well as how thecity can be viewed as artifact or ﬁction. Drawing upon theories fromgeography, architecture, sociology, and urban studies, we examine thetraditional dichotomy between city and country, the relationship betweengender and sexuality and urban representation, and the ways thatcommunity is deﬁned and envisioned in contemporary urban contexts.EN 0390 Literature Capstone3 CreditsPrerequisites: EN 0351 or EN 0352; one 300-level literature course; junioror senior standing.The capstone seminar course provides Literature Concentrationstudents with a cohort experience in which they integrate their literaturecoursework and produce a substantive research project. The capstonecourse functions as a seminar in which the students begin the semesterwith shared readings and discussion on a theme chosen by the instructor,including theory and research methodology. Students are encouraged toconsider presenting their research in either traditional or digital format.EN 0399 Independent Study1-4 CreditsSee department chair for details.
EN 0405 Literature for Young Adults3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, E_AF English LiteratureAfter 1800During the past two decades, adolescent literature has proliferated, grownmore diverse, and improved in richness and quality. The course exploresthe major current authors, poets, and illustrators of works written foryoung adults. Topics include theories and purposes of reading literaturein the classroom; criteria development for evaluating adolescentliterature; reader response in the classroom; reading workshop; andadolescent literature integration across the curriculum.EN 0411 Teaching Writing in the 3-12 Classroom3 CreditsThis course provides teachers and prospective teachers with a theoreticalbackground in writing process as well as practical techniques forapplying the theory. The course helps teachers develop awareness oftheir own composing processes and the processes of others. Topicsinclude writing needs of diverse populations, the reading/writingrelationship, writing of different genres, mini-lessons, conferencingtechniques, revision techniques, writing across the curriculum, publishingalternatives, portfolios, and other forms of assessment. Underlying theclass is the premise that in sharing their perspectives, teachers at theelementary and secondary levels enhance each other's performance aswriting educators and as writers.EN 0417 Teaching and Learning Grammar3 CreditsDesigned for English education majors and for experienced Englishteachers, this course presents an introduction to the principles of moderndescriptive linguistics, especially as it relates to present-day English,its grammatical structure, its sound and spelling systems, and itsvocabulary and rules of usage. The course approaches modern Englishgrammar from structural and transformational viewpoints, placingspecial emphasis on the teaching of language arts, including compositionand stylistic analysis.English for Engineers (EEG)EEG 0401 English Skills for Engineering Graduate Students1 CreditThis course is designed for international engineering students pursuingan advanced degree. It is mandatory for students who score below 600on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Topics includeconducting and writing research reviews, summaries, and bibliographies;research data bases in engineering; using library resources; organizationand writing research papers in English; and plagiarism and why itmatters.English: Writing (ENW)ENW 0200 Creative Writing3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course fosters creativity and critical acumen through extensiveexercises in the composition of poetry and ﬁction.ENW 0202 Creative Writing: Poetry I3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This workshop course concentrates on the analysis and criticism ofstudent manuscripts, devoting a portion of the course to a discussionof major trends in contemporary poetry and signiﬁcant movements ofthe past. The course considers traditional forms, such as the sonnet andvillanelle, as well as modern experimental forms and free verse. Studentslearn how to prepare and submit manuscripts to publishers.ENW 0204 Creative Writing: Drama3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course teaches the writing of one-act plays for the stage in aworkshop format that involves envisioning, writing/drafting, and regularrevision of seed-ideas and subjects. The process requires skillful,imaginative handling of the formative elements of drama, including plot,character, language or speech-action, envisaged staging, and form. Italso involves timely submission of assignments and drafts of scenesand whole plays for periodic in-class readings and feedback. Studentsare expected to submit at speciﬁed times midterm and ﬁnal drafts thatdemonstrate the technique or art of playwriting as well as conform to thegeneral requirements of the course.ENW 0205 Creative Writing: Fiction I3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course for the student who seeks an intensive workshop approachto ﬁction composition emphasizes the short story and focuses on theanalysis of student manuscripts. It includes some discussion of the workof signiﬁcant authors (past and present) as a way of sharpening studentawareness of technique and the literary marketplace for ﬁction.ENW 0206 Creative Writing: Nonﬁction I3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course offers students the opportunity to study and practicethe art and craft of literary nonﬁction. Students will study the work ofaccomplished writers in the ﬁeld, both past and present, as a foundationfor analyzing and critiquing each other's manuscripts in workshopformat. Forms studied and practiced will include the memoir, personalessay, and reflective essay.ENW 0207 Themes in Creative Writing3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0202 or ENW 0203 or ENW 0205 or ENW 0206.This course provides an opportunity for students to study how a singletheme is treated by a number of writers in the diverse genres of poetry,ﬁction, and nonﬁction and to experiment with writing in all three genresas well. Topics will vary by year, but students will get the opportunity towrite creatively and analytically on the theme in a course that combinestechniques of literary study with those of creative writing.ENW 0214 Professional Presentations: Writing and Delivery3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.The ability to speak conﬁdently and convincingly is an asset to everyonewho wants to take an active role in his or her workplace and community.This interdisciplinary and writing-intensive course provides studentswith the necessary tools to produce audience-centered presentationsand develop critical-thinking skills. It also introduces the techniquesof argumentation and persuasion, and the use of technology inpresentations.ENW 0220 News Writing3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012 (concurrency allowed).This introductory course emphasizes the techniques used by reportersto collect information and write stories for newspapers, magazines, theInternet, and broadcast outlets. Students learn to gather information,interview sources, write leads, structure a story, and work with editors.Students analyze how different news organizations package information,hear from guest speakers, and visit working journalists in the ﬁeld.Students develop a higher level of media literacy and learn to deal withthe news media in their careers.
ENW 0221 News Writing II: Digital Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0220.The journalism world is in the middle of a transformation in the waystories are conceptualized, generated and communicated. DigitalJournalism will help students discover how to take advantage of themultimedia possibilities in this new world of online story telling. Thisintermediate writing and multimedia course will allow students to buildmore complex and engaging story packages, taking advantages ofnew computer tools like the Adobe Creative Suite. It also will introducestudents to the literature of publication design and help them develop anappreciation of the contributions that various world cultures have madeto communication and design aesthetics.ENW 0222 Journalism Editing and Design3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: ENW 0220.Editing skills are in high demand in today's journalism job market bothfor traditional and online sources of information. This intermediate levelcourse emphasizes conciseness, precision, accuracy, style, and balancein writing and editing. The course includes researching and fact-checking,basic layout and design, headline and caption writing, and online editing.ENW 0290 Writing and Responding3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012 (concurrency allowed).This course introduces the ﬁeld of contemporary composition theory.Composition theorists consider ways of responding to the words of otherpeople in a manner that is thoughtful, careful, and provocative. At thesame time, they learn that by responding to the work of others, theyultimately become better writers and better thinkers themselves. Thiscourse focuses speciﬁcally on the response types appropriate for one-to-one work with writers. Students also gain hands-on experience in thecourse by writing extensively, sharing writing with other class members,critiquing student texts, and engaging in trial tutoring sessions. Thiscourse is a prerequisite for anyone wishing to apply for a paid position asa peer tutor in the Fairﬁeld University Writing Center.ENW 0302 Creative Writing: Poetry II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0202.In a workshop setting, the class discusses six assignments, writing abouta painting or writing in a structured form such as a sestina or sonnet. Inaddition to looking at models that illustrate individual assignments, theclass reads collections by six poets and discusses a book on traditionalforms.ENW 0305 Creative Writing: Fiction II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0205.This advanced workshop further develops skills begun in ENW 0205 bylooking closely at the craft of ﬁction. Students produce a substantialbody of quality work such as several full-length short stories orsubstantial revisions, a novella, or several chapters of a novel. In additionto reading selections from published ﬁction writers, students read andcomment extensively on their peers' work.ENW 0306 Creative Writing: Nonﬁction II3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0206.This advanced workshop builds upon students' experience in creativenonﬁction and allows students to practice the art of memoir in aworkshop setting. Students will read in subgenres such as Adversity/Transformation, Family/Generational, Political/Social, and SpiritualMemoirs and comment extensively upon their peers' work while readingexemplary work in the genre.ENW 0307 Form and Theory of Creative Writing3 CreditsPrerequisites: ENW 0202, ENW 0205, ENW 0206.This course invites deeper study into the theoretical underpinnings ofand diversity of formal choices available within a given genre in creativewriting. Students will study theories of composition, the origins andutility of certain techniques speciﬁc to the genre, and will be asked toexperiment with how these theories and practices inform their ownexperience of writing in the genre. Sustained attention to the functioningof language within the genre, and discussion of the process by whichliterary works within that genre gain their speciﬁc meanings.ENW 0311 Teaching and Writing3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognatePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course is designed to enhance students' skill as writers and theirpreparation as future teachers of writing in elementary and secondaryschools. The course explores four signiﬁcant questions: How dostudents learn to write? What experiences encourage good writing?How can your own experience as a writer inform your teaching? And,What do professional or state standards (such as the Common CoreState Standards) require students to know about writing? Studentshave opportunities to write in a variety of genres and for a range ofaudiences. This course will help students develop the knowledge, skills,and competences to meet the NCTE/NCATE Standards for the InitialPreparation of Teachers of Secondary English Language Arts.ENW 0317 Teaching and Learning Grammar3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course is intended for students who may want to teach EnglishLanguage Arts and who want to build (or build on) a strong foundationin both traditional and alternative models of English grammar andpedagogy. This course will help students develop the knowledge skillsand competences to meet the NCTE/ NCATE Standards for the InitialPreparation of Teachers of Secondary English Language Arts. A primarygoal of the course is to help future teachers understand the study ofgrammar as more than learning a static list of "rules," but rather as a setof overlapping inquiries into the origins, nature, uses, and consequencesof language.ENW 0320 Writing the Feature Story3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: ENW 0220.Students learn how to generate and develop feature story ideas, includinghuman-interest stories, backgrounders, trend stories, personality proﬁlesand other softer news approaches for use by newspapers, magazines,and web sites. The course stresses story-telling techniques and use ofalternative leads. Interviewing, web research and rewriting techniques arestressed.ENW 0321 Big Data Storytelling3 CreditsPrerequisite: ENW 0220.This intermediate course synthesizes cutting-edge big data technologiesand traditional news writing and aims to produce compelling stories bymining the enormous public data provided by government and non-proﬁtorganizations. Other than overviewing the construct of big data, its origin,and social impact, the course offers hands-on training on using intuitivetools to produce engaging data-driven stories. Students will walk throughthe entire production process: data access, retrieval, cleaning, analysis,and visualization. Principles of information visualization and interfacedesign will be applied throughout the course, accompanied by in-depthdiscussions on legal and ethical challenges facing big data story telling.
ENW 0323 Photojournalism3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism Elective, ENPC Digital JournalismProduction ComponentPrerequisite: ENW 0220.Photography is derived from the Greek words for light and writing. Justas a journalist masters the art of words, a photographer masters the artof writing with light. A photographer tells a story with a single image, ormultiple images, which impact the readers with a wide variety of humanemotions. This course is about reporting with a camera, the visual aspectof journalism. Some technical aspects will be covered, but the majoritywill be hands-on assignments that are typical of newspapers, magazines,and web sites. There is substantial reading on photojournalism, plus avariety of writing assignments.ENW 0329 Issues in News Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: ENW 220.This intermediate course will focus on a different dimension of newswriting each semester. Guest speakers will help students developan ethical decision-making approach to journalism and deepen theirunderstanding of the role of the press as a government watchdog.Students may take this course twice under different subtitles.ENW 0330 Literary Journalism3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course focuses on the use of story-telling techniques in writingcreative nonﬁction. Students learn how to make factual articlescome alive by incorporating techniques such as narrative, dialogue,scene-setting, pacing, conflict and resolution. The course emphasizesinterviewing and advanced research techniques used in writing thesecreative nonﬁction articles for newspapers, magazines, books, and onlinesources. There will be substantial reading and analysis of classics in theliterary journalism ﬁeld.ENW 0332 Business Writing3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course investigates the demands of business writing, includingdesigning documents that visually display information and invite readersto read either quickly or thoroughly. The course stresses theoreticalissues as well as practical skills. Students practice writing skills on avariety of projects including memos, proposals, reports, collaborativewriting, and writing as part of the job-hunting process. Learning goalsinclude understanding the purposes of writing in business and industry,writing with a clear sense of audience, becoming familiar with documentdesign and electronic communication, ethical and cross-cultural issues,and reviewing scholarly writing and research in this academic ﬁeld.ENW 0335 Technical Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism Elective, EVAP EnvironmentalStudies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course investigates the theory and practice of writing in technicalﬁelds, introducing students to types of oral, written, and hypertextcommunication that technical writers use in workplace settings. In-classwriting activities, workshops, and lengthier projects familiarize studentswith the styles, organizations, and formats of various documents, andprepare students for the special demands of technical writing. Thecourse also introduces students to research and scholarly writing inthe academic ﬁeld. This course is suitable for advanced undergraduatestudents preparing for writing-intensive careers or graduate school, aswell as technical writing professionals and practitioners who wish toplan, research, and write more effectively. Available to MPA students withpermission; additional coursework required.ENW 0336 Issues in Professional Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism Elective, ENPC Digital JournalismProduction ComponentPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course investigates a variety of issues relevant to contemporaryprofessional writing. In addition to surveying theoretical positions in thediscipline, the course emphasizes preparing effective written productsfor academic and professional settings. In-class writing activities,workshops, and lengthier projects prepare students to think criticallyin this dynamic and ever-changing profession while familiarizing themwith the writing styles, organizations, and formats of various documents.Topics include writing for public relations, multimedia writing, andtechnical and professional editing. This course is suitable for advancedundergraduate students preparing for writing-intensive careers orgraduate school. Students may take this course twice under differentsubtitles.ENW 0337 Multimedia Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production ComponentPrerequisite: EN 0012.The purpose of this class is to encourage students to question howrhetoric functions in and through multimodal texts. Speciﬁcally, our goalthroughout this course is to answer the question: what makes for aneffective multimodal text? We will examine how meaning is construedthrough the use of images, sounds, arrangements, colors, shapes,sizes, movement, and fonts. We will analyze the ways rhetors constructmultimodal texts, and we will also create our own multimodal texts.Together we will learn to use Photoshop, iMovie, Dreamweaver, CSS, andHTML in order to create rhetorically savvy multimodal texts.ENW 0338 Persuasive Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course sharpens students' skills in argument and encourages aclear, forceful prose style. Students practice writing skills in a variety ofprojects including resumes and cover letters, editorials, formal proposals,and public service announcements designed for video podcasts.Students will learn how to analyze an audience and use key features ofpersuasion such as concessions, disclaimers, rebuttals, and effectiveleads. The course examines the ethical responsibilities of a persuasivewriter in business and civic life.
ENW 0339 Grant and Proposal Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism Elective, EVAP EnvironmentalStudies: Applied Professional Skills , HASM Humanitarian Action MinorSkills/Method Course, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course prepares students to write effective proposals and reports.Students learn to deﬁne and write problem statements, objectives, plansof action, assessment documents, budget presentations, and projectsummaries. In addition, they sharpen their teamwork, editing, writing,audience awareness, and design skills as they engage in collaborativeprojects with non-proﬁt organizations in the community. Relevanthistorical and ethical considerations are discussed. A service-learningcomponent is included in this course. Available to MPA students withpermission; additional coursework required.ENW 0340 World of Publishing I3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: EN 0012.This course introduces students to the ﬁeld of publishing, particularlybook and magazine publishing. It provides students with a solidfoundation in the publishing ﬁeld (e.g., selecting and editing manuscripts,book/magazine production, and marketing) and offers students practicalhands-on experience similar to that of an internship position at amagazine or publishing house. In addition to attending lectures andparticipating in discussion, students work on the University's nationalliterary magazine, Dogwood.ENW 0341 World of Publishing II3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: ENW 0340.Students gain hands-on experience in the ﬁeld of publishing, particularlybook and magazine publishing, by working as associate editors in thepreparation of the University's national literary magazine, Dogwood,including work with digital publishing and design platforms.ENW 0345 Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: ENCP Digital Journalism Capstone CoursePrerequisite: EN 0012.The internship program allows students to gain on-site experiencein the ﬁelds of journalism, publishing, and public relations throughsupervised work for local newspapers, magazines, publishers, andnews agencies. These positions are available upon recommendation ofthe department intern supervisor, under whose guidance the studentsassume the jobs, which require 10 to 15 hours a week. Students may takeone internship for credit toward the English major. Students may take asecond internship for elective credit. The internship workshop is held inthe evening, once a month. Enrollment by permission only.ENW 0346 Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: ENCP Digital Journalism Capstone CoursePrerequisite: EN 0012.The internship program allows students to gain on-site experiencein the ﬁelds of journalism, publishing, and public relations throughsupervised work for local newspapers, magazines, publishers, andnews agencies. These positions are available upon recommendation ofthe department intern supervisor, under whose guidance the studentsassume the jobs, which require 10 to 15 hours a week. Students may takeone internship for credit toward the English major. Students may take asecond internship for elective credit. The internship workshop is held inthe evening, once a month. Enrollment by permission only.ENW 0347 Independent Writing Project3 CreditsAttributes: ENCP Digital Journalism Capstone CoursePrerequisite: EN 0012.Students undertake individual tutorials in writing and can obtain creditfor writing for The Mirror, The Sound, or for other projects of personalinterest. Only one independent writing project can be counted towardfulﬁlling the ﬁve ﬁeld electives required to complete an English major. Thedepartment will consider exceptions only if multiple Independent WritingProject courses cover different subject areas and approval in advance isobtained. Enrollment by permission only.ENW 0348 Independent Writing Project3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.Students undertake individual tutorials in writing and can obtain creditfor writing for The Mirror, The Sound, or for other projects of personalinterest. Only one independent writing project can be counted towardfulﬁlling the ﬁve ﬁeld electives required to complete an English major. Thedepartment will consider exceptions only if multiple Independent WritingProject courses cover different subject areas and approval in advance isobtained. Enrollment by permission only.ENW 0350 Special Topics in Writing (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: EN 0012.This course is an umbrella under which a variety of courses can be takenon an experimental or temporary basis, exploring different writing stylesand approaches.ENW 0397 Journalism Practicum3 CreditsAttributes: ENCP Digital Journalism Capstone Course, ENDE DigitalJournalism ElectivePrerequisites: ENW 0220; junior or senior standing; one semester onMirror.Students apply the material learned in class by working as a reporter,photographer or editor with the campus newspaper, The Mirror. Thecourse is designed for Mirror editors or students with equivalentexperience.ENW 0398 Publishing Practicum3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism ElectivePrerequisite: ENW 0341; Junior or senior standing.Students apply material learned in ENW 0340 as they serve in a senioreditorial role as a Managing Editor in the preparation of the University'snational literary magazine, Dogwood. Enrollment by permission only.ENW 0399 Advanced Portfolio Workshop3 CreditsPrerequisites: ENW 0302 or ENW 0305 or ENW 0306.English 399 is a capstone course for Creative Writing concentratorswho want to work on longer creative projects (novel, memoir, collectionof short stories, essays, or poems; or some combination thereof). Thecourse will be run as a workshop class, with students submitting creativework in one (or more) of the three genres, to be read and critiqued by thefaculty member and students. Students can expect to submit a minimumof 50 pages of prose or 30 pages of poetry or some equivalent of the two.Students will also be required give a ﬁnal public reading of their workduring the semester.
ENW 0444 Fiction6 CreditsCorequisite: ENW 0447.The course is an intensive, ten-day program of study. Students mustsubmit two creative pieces to their respective workshop faculty prior tothe residency and attend daily workshops. Within the workshops, theymust actively participate, both orally and by providing written commentson their peers' work. Students must attend at least six afternoonseminars, lectures, or panel discussions presented by resident facultyand visiting experts. Preparation for each event involves students havingcompleted a required reading list. After the seminar, a student mustsubmit written critiques of what they learned. Finally, all students mustattend evening readings by faculty. At the end of the residency, studentswork out a semester plan with their assigned mentor for the followingsemester. This plan must be approved and signed by the mentor andsubmitted to the MFA administration.ENW 0445 Nonﬁction6 CreditsCorequisite: ENW 0448.The course is an intensive, ten-day program of study. Students mustsubmit two creative pieces to their respective workshop faculty prior tothe residency and attend daily workshops. Within the workshops, theymust actively participate, both orally and by providing written commentson their peers' work. Students must attend at least six afternoonseminars, lectures, or panel discussions presented by resident facultyand visiting experts. Preparation for each event involves students havingcompleted a required reading list. After the seminar, a student mustsubmit written critiques of what they learned. Finally, all students mustattend evening readings by faculty. At the end of the residency, studentswork out a semester plan with their assigned mentor for the followingsemester. This plan must be approved and signed by the mentor andsubmitted to the MFA administration.ENW 0446 Poetry6 CreditsCorequisite: ENW 0449.The course is an intensive, ten-day program of study. Students mustsubmit two creative pieces to their respective workshop faculty prior tothe residency and attend daily workshops. Within the workshops, theymust actively participate, both orally and by providing written commentson their peers' work. Students must attend at least six afternoonseminars, lectures, or panel discussions presented by resident facultyand visiting experts. Preparation for each event involves students havingcompleted a required reading list. After the seminar, a student mustsubmit written critiques of what they learned. Finally, all students mustattend evening readings by faculty. At the end of the residency, studentswork out a semester plan with their assigned mentor for the followingsemester. This plan must be approved and signed by the mentor andsubmitted to the MFA administration.ENW 0447 Independent Study: Fiction6 or 9 CreditsThis course is a ﬁve-month, intensive distance-learning writing programof study developed by both the student and his or her assigned mentor.Under the mentor's guidance, the student will develop a plan to improvehis or her ability to write in one genre of ﬁction (e.g., the short story,the novel, the historical novel). The student will be required to write aminimum of 100 pages, spread out over ﬁve monthly submissions tothe mentor, and the mentor will respond with speciﬁc written notesanalyzing the work's strengths and weaknesses. In addition, the studentwill be required to read a minimum of two books per month and to writetwo essays on some element of the craft, totaling ten craft essaysduring the term. The mentor will provide feedback on all of the student'swriting, accentuated by both a mid-term assessment of the student'sdevelopment and a ﬁnal assessment along with a grade.ENW 0448 Independent Study: Nonﬁction6 or 9 CreditsThis course is a ﬁve-month, intensive distance-learning writing programof study developed by both the student and his or her assigned mentor.Under the mentor's guidance, the student will develop a plan to improvehis or her ability to write short personal essays or the memoir. Thestudent will be required to write a minimum of 100 pages, spread out overﬁve monthly submissions to the mentor, and the mentor will respond withspeciﬁc written notes analyzing the work's strengths and weaknesses. Inaddition, the student will be required to read a minimum of two books permonth and to write two essays on some element of the craft, totaling tencraft essays during the term. The mentor will provide feedback on all ofthe student's writing, accentuated by both a mid-term assessment of thestudent's development and a ﬁnal assessment along with a grade.ENW 0449 Independent Study: Poetry6 or 9 CreditsThis course is a ﬁve-month, intensive distance-learning writing programof study developed by both the student and his or her assigned mentor.Under the mentor's guidance, the student will develop a plan to improvehis or her ability to write poetry. The student will be required to write aminimum of 20 new poems, spread out over ﬁve monthly submissionsto the mentor, and the mentor will respond with speciﬁc written notesanalyzing the work's strengths and weaknesses. In addition, the studentwill be required to read a minimum of two books per month and to writetwo essays on some element of poetry craft, totaling ten craft essaysduring the term. The mentor will provide feedback on all of the student'swriting, accentuated by both a mid-term assessment of the student'sdevelopment and a ﬁnal assessment.ENW 0450 Stage and Screen6 CreditsCorequisite: ENW 0451.This course is composed of workshops in the area of Writing for Stageand Screen and all other requirements during one graduate MFAresidency. Workshop topics include the writing of plays and screenplayas well as principles and application of dramatic structure. Students willactively participate, both orally and by providing written comments ontheir peers' work. Students must attend at least ﬁve afternoon seminars,lectures, or panel discussions.ENW 0451 Independent Study: Stage and Screen6 or 9 CreditsThis distance-learning independent study comprises a semester’s workwith a faculty mentor for the MFA program, focusing on writing plays,screenplays, and cross-genre work as well as work in dramatic andnarrative structure. A schedule and program of study is developed byboth the student and assigned faculty mentor, including approximately100 pages of creative work as well as a list of books and supplementalreadings, and ten pages of analysis and discussion of craft during thesemester.ENW 0497 Seminar in Rhetoric and Composition Theory andPractice3 CreditsENW 0498 Rhetoric and Composition Practicum3 Credits
Environmental Studies (EV)EV 0298 Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: EVCA Environmental Studies: Capstone, EVPE EnvironmentalStudies ElectivePrerequisites: Completion of three environmental studies courses;program approval.Environmental studies minors gain ﬁrsthand experience working offcampus in ﬁelds related to environment science, policy, economics,education, and other issues. Typically, an internship requires 8 to 12hours per week on site and a journal or summary report for credit. An on-site supervisor and an environmental studies professor evaluate studentwork. Students must have a GPA of 3.0 or higher.EV 0299 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: EVCA Environmental Studies: Capstone, EVPE EnvironmentalStudies ElectivePrerequisites: junior or senior standing, three environmental studiesprogram courses, and program approval.A student may conduct a one-semester independent study on a deﬁnedresearch topic or ﬁeld of study under the supervision of a professor inthe Environmental Studies Program. Credit requires prior approval by theProfessor which whom the student will work as well as the Director ofthe Environmental Studies Program. Students must have a GPA of 3.0 orhigher.EV 0301 Environment Workshop3 CreditsAttributes: EVCA Environmental Studies: Capstone, EVPE EnvironmentalStudies ElectiveThe Environment Workshop is a capstone course for students in theEnvironmental Studies Program but is also open to all juniors and seniorsat the University. This course centers on a semester long, interdisciplinaryproject that examines a particular environment-related issue andproposes practical solutions.EV 0303 Campus Sustainability3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, EVSS Environmental Studies: SocialScienceSustainability has become a nearly unassailable catchphrase for the21st century. But what does it really mean? Not in a book but in practice?This course uses the Fairﬁeld University campus and the expandingliterature on best practices to explore key sustainability issues facingcolleges, corporations, small towns, cities, and private citizens. Theclass will include off-campus site visits, guest speakers, and freeranging discussions of cutting edge readings. Students will also conductsemester-long individual or group interdisciplinary projects that analyzespeciﬁc sustainability issues.Family Therapy (FT)FT 0098 Comprehensive Exam in Family Studies0 CreditsThe family studies comprehensive exam is a standardized exam in whichthe candidate answers questions that require them to demonstrateunderstanding and mastery of terms reflecting the content theyhave learned throughout the program. It is highly recommended thatcandidates complete their comprehensive exam during the semester priorto the one in which they plan to graduate.FT 0099 Comprehensive Exam in Marriage and Family Therapy0 CreditsThe marriage and family therapy comprehensive exam is a standardizedexam in which the candidate answers questions that require them todemonstrate understanding and mastery of terms reflecting the contentthey have learned throughout the program. It is highly recommended thatcandidates complete their comprehensive exam during the semester priorto the one in which they plan to graduate.FT 0425 Private Practice and Small Business Management3 CreditsThis course will provide an overview of small business and privatepractice management. Students will become acquainted with thetechnical and personal elements necessary to create and sustain aprivate practice. Attention will be focused on narrowing student focusin order to develop a feasible strategy for creating, implementing andmaintaining small business goals.FT 0433 Social Justice and Diversity in Professional Practice3 CreditsStudents examine professional practice with individuals, couples andfamilies from diverse ethnic, cultural, racial, religious and socioeconomicbackgrounds with a focus on issues of diversity, social justice, power,privilege and underserved communities, in accordance with Key ElementIV-B and Foundational Curriculum Area (FCA) 3 of the accreditationstandards set forth by the American Association for Marriage andFamily Therapy Education (COMAFTE). The course addresses the issuesof gender role stereotyping and changing sex roles, and integratesprofessional contributions from the professional literature.FT 0447 Lifespan Human Development3 CreditsThis course explores the processes of individual and family developmentfrom childhood through old age. Presenting theoretical perspectivesfor studying child, adult, and family development, the course examinesthe modiﬁcations of family structures over time and psycho-socialdevelopment within family systems and cultural contexts. Crosslistedwith CN 0447.FT 0450 Techniques of Narrative and Solution-Focused Therapy3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0559.This course will provide an overview of two postmodern and strengths-based therapeutic theories, concepts and applications. The studentwill become acquainted with the theories and concepts developed byWhite, Epston, Anderson, Freedman, Combs, de Shazer, Berg and others.Attention will be focused on distinguishing between the postmodernapproaches in terms of assessment, conceptualization, treatment andtheoretical foundations.FT 0465 Introduction to Substance Abuse and Addictions3 CreditsCandidates explore basic information about the history and current use/abuse of various drugs and alcohol. Topics include addiction, the 12-stepprograms, physiological effects, FAS, COAs, and family systems as wellas culturally relevant prevention, intervention, and treatment strategiesfor individuals and families. Crosslisted with CN 0465.FT 0470 Professional Practice with LGBTQ Youth and Families3 CreditsThis course is designed to expand candidates' multicultural competencewhen working with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ)individuals, couples, and families in educational and mental healthsettings. Topics include identity development, political and historicalcontext, minority stress theory, ethical issues, and guidelines for bestpractice in marriage and family therapy, counseling, psychology, andeducational contexts.
FT 0525 Divorce, Single-Parenting, and Remarriage3 CreditsThis course considers the implications of divorce, single parenting,remarriage, and step-parenting for families experiencing these transitionsand for society at large. Speciﬁc topics include boundary issues duringtransition, legal aspects of divorce custody decisions, school issues forchildren of divorce, and the complexities of single-parenting and blendingfamilies, with an emphasis on recent research regarding divorce and itsaftermath.FT 0550 Introduction to Marriage and Family Therapy3 CreditsThis course provides an overview of the historical development of theﬁeld of family therapy, acquainting candidates with the models developedby Minuchin, Haley, Madanes, Satir, Bowen, Whitaker, and others. Thecourse focuses on distinguishing between the systemic approachesin terms of assessment, conceptualization, diagnosis, treatment, andtheoretical foundations, and explores contemporary directions of theﬁeld.FT 0552 Intervention in Structural and Strategic Family Therapy3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0550.This course focuses on the models of Minuchin, Haley, Madanes, andMRI, with an emphasis on developing a substantive understanding ofdiagnosis, assessment, and intervention design. The course addressesthe range of techniques associated with each orientation, indications andcontra-indications for using speciﬁc techniques, rationale developmentfor intervention, and the role of the therapist.FT 0553 Family Therapy Pre-Practicum3 CreditsPrerequisites: FT 0433, FT 0550, FT 0552.Taken after 0FT 552 and with the approval of the clinical director, thiscourse provides simulated experiences in the practice of family therapyand focuses on developing skills in joining and forming a therapeuticrelationship, designing and implementing interventions, and the useof self at the various stages of therapy. The course emphasizes thestructural, strategic, and systemic family therapy models and addressesculturally sensitive practice, management, and treatment of casesof suicide, child abuse, domestic violence, and incest. Successfulcompletion of this course and the requirements determines readinessfor clinical practice. Candidates must have a signed clinical trainingagreement on ﬁle before registration.FT 0555 Foundations of Marital and Family Therapy3 CreditsThis course exposes candidates to the theories upon which the modelsof family therapy are based, exploring the critical epistemological issuesin family therapy theory. Furthermore, it helps candidates think abouttherapy theoretically applying systems theory to an understanding ofthe variety of contexts in which marriage and family therapists work,including mental health systems, medical systems, etc. The courseprepares candidates to understand and contribute to current thinking inthe ﬁeld in regard to theory and practice. Topics include general systemstheory, cybernetics, communication theory, constructivism, and currentdevelopments in epistemology.FT 0556 Research in Marriage and Family Therapy3 CreditsThis course covers the methodology, design, and statistical proceduresfor research in marriage and family therapy. The course addressesselecting appropriate experimental designs, data analysis andunderstanding the inferential potential of statistical procedures, andevaluating published research, including efﬁcacy and outcome studiesin marriage and family therapy. The course content includes quantitativeand qualitative research in the ﬁeld with recognition of cultural factors inresearch design and methodology.FT 0559 Practicum in Family Therapy I3 CreditsPrerequisites: FT 0553, FT 0565.This course provides clinical experience working with families and meetsthe standards for training established by the American Associationfor Marriage and Family Therapy and the Connecticut Department ofHealth and Addiction Services. Candidates provide ﬁve hours per week ofservice in the Koslow Center plus ﬁve to 10 hours per week of service in acommunity agency offering family therapy treatment under supervision.This practicum follows consecutively after FT 0553.FT 0560 Practicum in Family Therapy II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0559.This course is a continuation of FT 0559.FT 0561 Advanced Interventions in Family Therapy3 CreditsPrerequisites: FT 0559.This course explores in depth the theory and techniques of Bowen FamilySystems Theory. It focuses on developing a substantive understandingof the theoretical assumptions and clinical applications of Bowen theoryand emphasizes self-of-therapist processes as central to effectivepractice of Bowen therapy.FT 0565 Ethical, Legal, and Professional Issues in FamilyTherapy3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0550.This course examines issues speciﬁc to the clinical practice andprofession of marriage and family therapy. Areas of study include ethicaldecision-making and the code of ethics; professional socializationand the role of professional organizations; licensure and certiﬁcation;legal responsibilities and liabilities of clinical practice; research, familylaw, conﬁdentiality issues, AAMFT Code of Ethics, interprofessionalcooperation, and mental health care delivery systems.FT 0566 Substance Abuse and the Family3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0465.This course brings together substance abuse studies and family systemsapproaches. Students are presented with a knowledge base of skills andmethods for assessing and treating family systems. The course identiﬁesthe addictive and intergenerational patterns within families. Students areencouraged to reflect upon the theoretical frameworks to understand andcreate interventions for alcoholic and substance-abusing family systems.Relational clinical models including developmental, systemic, solution-focused, and narrative approaches are reviewed and evaluated. Thecourse examines the history and methods of treatment models. Issuesof social justice are emphasized in a review of socio-cultural and socialpolicy that influence family behaviors and treatment. Crosslisted withCN 0565.FT 0567 Couples Therapy3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0553.This course examines couple relationships including issues of intimacyand sexuality throughout the lifespan. The focus is on understanding,conceptualizing, and treating couple relationships across sexualorientations and partnership types. The course addresses assessmentand intervention in critical cases as well as treatment of commonpresenting problems such as infertility, childrearing conflict, inﬁdelity,domestic violence and chronic health issues. The course also coverssexual dysfunction as it occurs in each phase of the couple relationahip.Students learn methods for biopsychosocial assessment and diagnosisand develop ethically informed treatment formulations using systemicmodels of therapy.
FT 0568 Special Topics in Family Therapy (Shell)1-3 CreditsThis course explores advanced topics in the ﬁeld of family therapy. Topicsmay vary each semester and are determined by the marriage and familytherapy faculty as a reflection of pertinent themes of interest in the ﬁeld.FT 0569 Assessment Techniques in Marriage and FamilyTherapy3 CreditsThis advanced family therapy course addresses clinical diagnosis andassessment in the treatment process. Topics include major familytherapy assessment methods and instruments, familiarity with the DSMV, pharmacological treatments, and recognition and critical assessmentof cultural factors.FT 0570 School-Based Practicum in Marriage and FamilyTherapy3 CreditsThis course is a requirement in the Area of Specialization in SchoolMarriage and Family Therapy and provides an opportunity for candidatesto apply theory to practice in the context of the public school system.The practicum is an advanced level clinical experience that is speciﬁcallydesigned to meet the requirements established by the ConnecticutState Board of Education for certiﬁcation in School Marriage and FamilyTherapy. Enrollment by permission only.FT 0580 Internship in Family Therapy I3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0560.During internship candidates provide 10 to 15 hours of clinical services atan off-campus internship site. They receive weekly individual and groupsupervision by an approved site supervisor and weekly group supervisionby University faculty.FT 0581 Internship in Family Therapy II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0580.This course is a continuation of FT 0580. Candidates must complete allclinical and supervisory hours by the close of the grading period to beeligible for graduation.FT 0582 Continuing Internshp in Family Therapy1 CreditFT 0595 Independent Study3-6 CreditsCandidates undertake individual projects in consultation with a facultymember based on proposals submitted one semester in advance ofcourse registration.FT 0598 Master's Thesis in Marriage and Family Therapy3 CreditsPrerequisite: FT 0556.This elective seminar is for candidates wishing to conduct originalresearch in the ﬁeld of family therapy or family science. The thesis isexpected to make a scholarly contribution to the ﬁeld. Credit for thiscourse is contingent upon approval of the completed thesis. Priorto beginning this course, candidates must consult with their advisorand complete the prerequisite steps, including the preparation andacceptance of a thesis proposal.Film, Television, and Media Arts(FTM)FTM 0010 Introduction to Film Studies3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production Component, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course explores the fundamentals of ﬁlm form (including narrativemodes, visual design, performance styles, editing, and sound design),and the relationship between a ﬁlm's style and its overall meaning. Bylearning how to "read" ﬁlm as a text and utilize sophisticated cinematiclanguage, you will begin to critically understand ﬁlm as both an art formand a product of culture. Each week's meetings will include lecture,discussion, and a separate, dedicated screening of a feature ﬁlm.FTM 0011 Introduction to Film and Video Production3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production Component, VPC2 Visualand Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course introduces and familiarizes students with all the productiontools of the Film, Television, and Media Arts program, including: cameras;lighting instruments and grip equipment packages; audio equipment,including microphones, audio recorders, mixers, windscreens, etc.Each class consists of two parts -- an instruction and discussion of thetheoretical elements of the class topics, and a hands-on demonstrationof the theory just presented. The course features multiple practicumassignments designed to provide a thorough learning experience and toillustrate camera, lighting and audio theory.FTM 0090 Production Practicum in Film, Television, and MediaArts1 CreditFilm, Television, and Media Arts majors must take this course for atleast one semester during each of their freshman, sophomore andjunior years. They will participate in a variety of ﬁlm, television or radioproductions beyond those assigned within individual courses, including:regular programs on the Ham Channel or WVOF; independent studentﬁlms; student TV broadcasts of annual campus events; Media Centerproductions or broadcasts; or senior capstone projects. Enrollment bypermission only.FTM 0101 American Cinema: History and Analysis3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, GDFT Graphic Design: Filmand Television, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseAmerican cinema has evolved from its origins as a technologicalnovelty at the end of the 19th century to become a key component of amultibillion-dollar industry that profoundly influences popular culture inthe United States and around the world. This course examines importantAmerican ﬁlms of the past 100 years and the technological, economic,and cultural developments that have influenced their creation, along withthe theoretical concepts necessary for their analysis.FTM 0102 American Television: History and Analysis3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, GDFT Graphic Design: Filmand Television, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseAn introduction to the study of television in the United States, this coursereviews the historical roots of television content and technology and itsrelationship to radio and ﬁlm, and its evolution new media platforms.Students examine the evolution of the many program types found inbroadcast and cable television, explore their narrative conventions, anddeﬁne criteria for analyzing story, structure, formats, performance, andproduction values.
FTM 0103 World Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: ENDE Digital Journalism Elective, GDFT Graphic Design: Filmand Television, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course surveys the development of world cinema with a particularemphasis on its canonical texts. We will examine the cinematic mediumin its various global, cultural, and social contexts by studying key ﬁlmmovements and styles, including German Expressionism, Soviet Montage,Italian Neo-Realism, various "new wave" cinemas, and certain globalﬁlm movements. We will also study the development of popular nationalgenres and evaluate the relationship between art, commerce, and tasteas it pertains to the distribution and U.S. reception of world cinema.Students will gain factual knowledge and learn to analyze and criticallyevaluate points of view that may not be their own.FTM 0104 Documentary Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: GDFT Graphic Design: Film and Television, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course surveys the historical, political, social and culturalsigniﬁcance of non-ﬁction (documentary) storytelling traditions inthe U.S. and abroad. Students will study canonical and independentlyproduced documentaries directed by domestic and internationalﬁlmmakers to deepen their overall understanding of the technologicaland aesthetic contributions that national cinemas have contributed tononﬁction ﬁlmmaking. Major themes to be discussed are tradition vs.modernization, colonialism, religion, cross cultural relationships, class,gender, ethnicity, nationalism, the human condition, hegemony, anddisplacement. Students will gain factual knowledge and learn to analyzeand critically evaluate points of view that may not be their own.FTM 0108 Sports Broadcasting and Remote TelevisionProduction3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production Component, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course introduces students to the principles and practice of theworld of sports broadcasting. Topics include the history of the industry,its developing techniques, the aesthetic and narrative structure oftelevision sportscasting, its economic impact on the industry, media lawand ethics applied to the sports world, and its signiﬁcant place within thegeneral broadcast world.FTM 0120 Beginning Screenwriting for Film and Television3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis beginning course introduces students to screenwriting bydeveloping their understanding of visual storytelling for shortdocumentary ﬁlms, ﬁction ﬁlms, and the television sitcom. The main goalof the course is to develop creative capacities in storytelling and creativewritten expression while introducing students to fundamental principlesof conventional ﬁction and non-ﬁction screenwriting. This course utilizeslecture, discussion, screenings, readings, and reflective essay writingto grapple with issues of narrative structure, characterization, conflict,aesthetics, and the politics and ethics of writing as well as other relatedtopics. Students will participate in regular writing workshops in whichfellow classmates will respond to their work.FTM 0130 Nonlinear Editing for Film and Television3 CreditsFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisites: FTM 0010, FTM 0011.This course examines the technical and theoretical conventions of ﬁlmand video editing that have emerged during more than one hundred yearsof motion picture and television history. Through readings, discussionsand lectures, as well as editing assignments, students will explore howto make meaning through the assembly of images and sound. Studentswill also gain experience with post-production software, including AdobePremiere Pro, Adobe Audition, and DaVinci Resolve.FTM 0131 Intermediate Film Production3 CreditsPrerequisites: FTM 0010, FTM 0011.This course introduces FTM majors to the major elements andprinciples of ﬁlm, television and media production, and its three stagesof preproduction, production, and post-production. Each studentauthors and collaboratively produces short narrative, documentary, andexperimental pieces on a common theme.FTM 0201 Filmmaker Studies (Shell)3 CreditsEach semester that it is offered, this course takes up the study of oneor more individual ﬁlmmakers - primarily directors - and surveys thatperson's (or pairs' or group's) body of work, examining major themes,techniques, motifs, topics, collaborations. In so doing, it seeks tomeasure and evaluate his or her contribution to the history and craft ofﬁlm. Filmmakers have included Alfred Hitchcock, Clint Eastwood, QuentinTarantino, Women Directors, and Ang Lee. May be taken twice.FTM 0201A Filmmaker Studies: Women Directors3 CreditsAttributes: ASVP American Studies: Visual and Performing Arts, GDFTGraphic Design: Film and Television, VPCH Visual and Performing ArtsCore: History CourseFTM 0201B Filmmaker Studies: Italian Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: ASVP American Studies: Visual and Performing Arts, CAOTCatholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_AF English Literature After1800, GDFT Graphic Design: Film and Television, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: Italian, VPCH Visual and Performing ArtsCore: History CourseThis survey of Italian ﬁlms as textual, cultural, and historical artifactsanalyzes movements such as neorealism, commedia all'italiana, thespaghetti western, and new Italian cinema through the works of selecteddirectors. The course follows a chronology from the silent period topresent day, with special emphasis on the "golden ages" of Italian cinema,neo-realism of the postwar period, the 1960s' comedy of manners, andthe new Italian cinema of the '80s and '90s. Students analyze the worksof Rossellini, De Sica, Fellini, Visconti, Germi, Antonioni, Wertmüller,Leone, Pasolini, Moretti, Benigni, and others.FTM 0201C Filmmaker Studies: Hitchcock3 CreditsThis course will examine questions of cinematic authorship through oneof the medium's most influential ﬁgures: Alfred Hitchcock. We will traceHitchcock's formal and thematic development across major ﬁlms fromthe 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s and then place this body of work in dialoguewith ﬁlmmakers such as Michael Powell, Luis Buñuel, Roman Polanski,Brian De Palma, Chantal Akerman, Bette Gordon, and more. Themesrelating to voyeurism, psychosis, perversion, surveillance, paranoia,gender, and sexuality will feature prominently. In addition to gaininginsight into authorship and the workings of the cinematic apparatus moregenerally, students will also develop proﬁciency with frameworks forcritical analysis, including genre, ideology, form, psychoanalysis, feministcritique, and queer theory, among others.
FTM 0204 African American Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, BSAH Black Studies:Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, GDFT GraphicDesign: Film and Television, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0010.This course explores the historical, social and cultural signiﬁcance ofAfrican American cinema from the silent era until present-day. Studentswill grapple with issues concerning the politics of representation ofpeople of African descent in the American ﬁlm industry and deepentheir overall understanding of ways that African American ﬁlmmakershave achieved artistry and expression in spite of obstacles posed byrace, class, and gender. Through regular screenings, readings, andpresentations students will deepen their overall understanding of theimpact of historical events and key ﬁlmic technological advancementson the establishment of the separate and unequal African American ﬁlmindustry.FTM 0205 Survey of Film Music: Hearing the Movies3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0010 or MU 0103 or MU 0104.This course provides an overview of ﬁlm music from 1900 to today.Students investigate the deﬁning characteristics of the major historicalperiods of ﬁlm music; explore the social and historical events that shapedthe industry; learn to actively listen to a score; and discuss salientfeatures of a given score. The object in this course is to develop skillsin analyzing the sound track, music's role in the sound track, and therelation of sound track and image track on small-scale and large-scale(narrative) levels. The course develops critical listening and viewing skillsas well as a ﬁlm-music historical survey.FTM 0206 American Film: Decades (Shell)3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History Course, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: FTM 0010.This course examines the use of ﬁlm form (e.g., cinematography, editing,sound design) in American movies made during a given 10-year period,as well as the social, cultural, historical and ideological contexts of theera in which they were made. Each iteration of the course is organizedaround particular themes relevant to the decade under discussion, e.g."1970s - Rebels with Causes." See FTM 0206A, FTM 0206B, FTM 0206C,FTM 0206D, FTM 0206E.FTM 0206A American Films: Decades: 1950s3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0206B American Films: Decades: 1960s3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseYou Say You Want A Revolution: Radical 60s in American Film. The 1960sbegan as a reaction to the bland conservatism of the 1950s. Revolutionwas in the air: political, cultural, sexual. The 60s were shocked and rockedby assassinations, war, and domestic upheaval. The Beatles made art outof pop music, and millions of young people decided to "make love, notwar." A bewildering array of new words and phrases entered the nationalvocabulary: pop art, folk-rock, heavy metal, hippies, "freaks," "pigs,"happenings, sit-ins, counter culture, commune, psychedelic, Vietnam,Woodstock, Black Panthers, defoliation, body-bag, mini-skirt, the Pill, LSD,and M.A.D (Mutually Assured Destruction). The Age was Aquarius, theMedium was the Message, and the message was "Turn on, tune in, anddrop out." Old Hollywood died in the 1960s, and the MPAA ratings wereborn. It remained to be seen how American ﬁlms would respond to thetimes...FTM 0206C American Films: Decades: 1970s3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0206D American Films: Decades: 1980s3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0206E American Films: Decades: 1990s3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207 Film Genres (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: FTM 0010.Genres are categories of ﬁlm characterized by recognizable conventionsthat include settings, stock characters, narrative patterns, stylisticdevices, historical contexts, and themes. Genres interact with ﬁlmmakers'and audiences' shared expectations and evolve over time. Each iterationof this course examines a speciﬁc genre (e.g. the Western, Horror,Science Fiction, etc.) and evaluates it in terms of ﬁlm form and its ownevolving set of conventions. See FTM 0207A, FTM 0207B, FTM 0207C,FTM 0207D, FTM 0207E, FTM 0207F, FTM 0207G, FTM 0207H,FTM 0207I.FTM 0207A Film Genres: Classic Comedy3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207B Film Genres: Cult Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207C Film Genres: Disaster/Apocalypse3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207D Film Genres: Film Noir3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207E Film Genres: Hollywood Musical3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207F Film Genres: Horror3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207G Film Genres: Independent Film3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207H Film Genres: Science Fiction3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0207I Film Genres: The Western3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0208 Television Genres (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: FTM 0010.Basic to understanding television as an art form is the concept of genre.This course introduces students to the deﬁning characteristics andthe critical analysis of television genre. On a rotating basis, the coursefocuses on drama, serial, situation comedy, news and documentary, andreality television, examining distinct conception, writing, production,directing, editing and other conventions of each. Social and historicalelements of the genre are also addressed. See FTM 0208A, FTM 0208B,FTM 0208C, FTM 0208D, FTM 0208E.FTM 0208A TV Genres: Comedy3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0208B TV Genres: Contemporary Drama3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0208C TV Genres: Crime Dramas3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0208D TV Genres: Reality TV3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFTM 0208E TV Genres: Sitcoms3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History Course
FTM 0209 Gender, Sexuality, and Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0010.This course examines how American movies have portrayed gender andqueer sexuality (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender/transsexual, andquestioning) to create a range of stereotypical and multi-dimensionalcharacters. From "coded" sexual references in classical ﬁlms, to timidNew Hollywood-era ﬁlms, to today's thriving independent cinema, thisrepresentational genealogy includes condescending myth and bold truth-telling, works that both mirror and shape their cultural moment.FTM 0210 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThese courses, offered periodically, focus in depth on a speciﬁc theme orissue, and may draw upon ﬁlms from one or more countries, from amongnumerous directors, and from various periods in ﬁlm history from thedawn of cinema to the present. Special applied courses may also beoffered in this category. May be taken twice.FTM 0210A Special Topics: Audio Post Production: Film, Television, andRadio3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThe focus of this course is an artistic and technical introduction toAudio Post-Production: the industry, the tools, and the processes thatproduce high-quality audio mixes for radio and visuals for broadcast,cinema, and internet-based media. The course will teach the technicalprocesses to allow students to use the software and hardware of audioproduction, but also to provide important background information onthe fundamentals of sound and the technology they are utilizing. Thisincludes intensive analysis of these fundamentals fas they apply to theindustry, the historical and scientiﬁc context of sound, and the criticallistening skills needed to engage in software use.FTM 0220 Intermediate Screenwriting3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0120.Writing a feature ﬁlm script can be one of the most difﬁcult and dauntingtasks for a writer/ﬁlmmaker, yet it remains thedominant format inﬁlmmaking practice. This class builds upon the foundation of FTM 0120,expanding upon the narrative techniques at play in short ﬁlms andapplying them to the roughly 90 page format. The majority of this class isstructured like a writers room/group, where studentswrite, write, write andfoster a collaborative environment where they share, critique and developscript ideas.FTM 0230 Lighting and Cinematography3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisites: FTM 0010, FTM 0011, FTM 0131.This advanced motion picture production course focuses on theproduction of narrative ﬁction ﬁlms. Students study and practiceadvanced techniques of ﬁlm production- including preproduction,production and postproduction responsibilities of the producer relatingto management, ﬁnancing, contracts, distribution and other businesselements of ﬁlmmaking. Students in the class collaborate to producesigniﬁcantly more complex narrative ﬁlms with more advanced camera,lighting, audio, and editing equipment.FTM 0231 Documentary and Experimental Film Production3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: FTM 0131.This course is designed to develop skills and critical perspectivesneeded to produce documentary work that promote social activism andawareness. Through lectures, discussions, screenings, readings, andhands-on demonstrations, students will learn about pre-production,production, and post-production for documentary work. By the endof the semester students will write, produce, direct, and edit shortdocumentaries focusing on social issues. By periodically presentingtheir own work, students will engage one another in discussions sharingconstructive criticism concerning individual projects.FTM 0232 Studio Television Production3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production Component, VPC2 Visualand Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisites: FTM 0010, FTM 0011, FTM 0131.This course offers a theoretical and hands-on introduction to the art andtechnology of television production within a studio context. Studentsreceive instruction on the creative and aesthetic use of the elementsand technology of studio television production - cameras, audio, lighting,editing, set design, and program development - and participate in a seriesof projects completed individually and as part of a team.FTM 0234 Directing for Film, Television, and Media3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisites: FTM 0010, FTM 0011, FTM 0131.This course explores what a ﬁlm director does, how he/she manipulatesand manages the divergent elements of cinema into a coherent whole,and often, into a unique and personal vision. The speciﬁc tasks of adirector related to her/his role with crew and with actors, and in thedevelopment of a ﬁlm from start to ﬁnish, are studied from practical andtheoretical perspectives.FTM 0235 Digital Motion Graphics3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: FTM 0010.The digital revolution has arrived for production of television and video.This course introduces the theory and basics of digital graphic designand editing, incorporating three-dimensional graphics, music, and soundeffects. Students master nonlinear programs and technology such asFinal Cut Pro, Avid, Photoshop, Flash, and Dreamweaver.FTM 0236 Digital Audio Workstation3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0011, FTM 0130; or MU 0150 or MU 0156.This course will provide the student with an in-depth knowledge of thepractical application of the Digital Audio Workstation (DAW). This courseis primarily designed for students interested in audio editing as it appliesto producing recordings, creating sound effects, and soundtrack designfor ﬁlm/TV/radio. Creating samples, recording techniques, waveformmanipulation, mixing, and the role of the Digital Audio Workstation inthe overall process of sound design will be explored. Students will beproﬁcient at using Logic Pro audio software to manipulate MIDI andaudio. Students will learn how to record live sound effects from theenvironment and manipulate the recordings to create Foley sound effects,and apply them to a ﬁlm segment. Students will learn to mix and master asegment of multi-track audio.
FTM 0237 Acting for the Camera3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: TA 0030.This course is an experiential introduction to the specialized techniquesused in successful on-camera acting. On-camera exercises willemphasize the importance of listening, truthful moment-to-momentresponse, and effective communication skills. Students will practice theirskills and apply their training to commercials, current television scripts,and screenplays. Initial classes examine the difference between actingfor the stage and acting for the camera. Students will practice a varietyof on-camera styles including comedy, crime drama, and commercials.The course builds towards longer scene work from a screenplay. Topicsinclude script analysis, nuance and depth of performance, and relaxationand conﬁdence on-camera.FTM 0305 Independent Study1-3 CreditsUsually open only to students majoring or minoring in Film, Television,and Media Arts with a concentration in ﬁlm, this course allows a studentto pursue in depth a topic or project in ﬁlm or television or media artshistory/theory or production, in close consultation with a faculty memberof the Film, Television, and Media Arts program. Enrollment by permissionof instructor only. May be taken twice.FTM 0306 Internship in Film, Television, and Media Arts1-3 CreditsIn consultation with a faculty member, upper-level major and minorstudents arrange a semester-long internship with one of many ﬁlmproduction companies located within Connecticut and the New Yorkmetropolitan area. The course combines on-site supervision andmeetings with faculty advisors with weekly journal submissions and anassigned paper at the end of the internship. Enrollment by permission ofinstructor only. May be taken twice.FTM 0310 Capstone Seminar I3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of all other major requirements.This course provides an opportunity for Film, Television, and Media Artsmajors in their senior year to produce a creative work that pulls togetherthe theoretical concepts and technical skills they have acquired duringtheir years in the Program. This course is required for all Film, Television,and Media Arts majors, who must take it in the fall semester of theirsenior year. The capstone project is completed in FTM 0311 in the springsemester of a major's senior year.FTM 0311 Capstone Seminar II3 CreditsPrerequisites: FTM 0310.This course provides an opportunity for Film, Television, and Media Artsmajors in their senior year to produce a creative work that pulls togetherthe theoretical concepts and technical skills they have acquired duringtheir years in the Program. This course is required for all Film, Television,and Media Arts majors, who must take it in the spring semester of theirsenior year.Finance (FI)FI 0101 Introduction to Finance3 CreditsFee: $105 DSB Computer Lab FeePrerequisites: AC 0011, EC 0011, EC 0012, one math course, sophomorestanding.This course provides the building blocks for understanding the role ofﬁnance in the domestic and international environments. Speciﬁcally, ina qualitative and quantitative manner, this course addresses the threeinterrelated ﬁelds of ﬁnance, namely: ﬁnancial markets, investments, andbusiness ﬁnance.FI 0190 Personal Finance3 CreditsThis course for non-majors covers ﬁnancial decision-making from apersonal standpoint. The course examines investments including stocks,bonds, housing purchases, and mutual funds with an emphasis on theelementary ﬁnancial principles of risk and return. Other topics include life,health, and other insurance needs, and pension and estate planning.FI 0200 Global Capital Markets3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0101, junior standing.This course surveys a variety of ﬁnancial instruments, institutions, andmarkets from a global perspective and covers the relationship betweenﬁnancial intermediaries and central banks. Students review the use oftraditional and new ﬁnancial instruments in the context of the speciﬁcmarkets they serve.FI 0210 Principles of Investment3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0101, junior standing.This course offers a general view of the operation of security marketsand the factors that influence security prices. Further, it includes basicanalysis and valuation of stocks, bonds, options, and futures. The coursealso provides an introduction to the tools and techniques that can beused to measure performance, manage risk, and construct efﬁcientportfolios.FI 0215 Financial Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0101, junior standing.This course examines the role of ﬁnancial managers in the context of theﬁrm. The course covers the theory and operationalization of the majorﬁnancial decisions faced by ﬁnancial managers. Major topics includeoptimal ﬁnancial decision-making, capital budgeting, ﬁnancing, and cashdistribution decisions within the framework of ﬁrm value maximization.FI 0240 International Finance3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0215, junior standing.This course deals with the international aspects of corporate ﬁnance.Topics include foreign exchange with emphasis on exchange ratedetermination, exchange rate risk management, international moneyand capital markets, international capital budgeting, cost of capital, andinternational trade ﬁnancing.FI 0300 Seminar in Fixed Income3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0210 or FI 0215.This course provides an in depth analysis of ﬁxed income securities andmarkets. The primary focus of the course is the analysis and valuationof ﬁxed income securities. The course also provides an overview ofﬁxed income markets and an introduction to ﬁxed income portfoliomanagement. Topics to be discussed include interest rate exposure(duration and convexity), credit risk analysis, hedging with swaps andfutures, and the term and credit structure of interest rates.FI 0305 Financial Trading and Strategic Simulations3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, FIEL Finance ElectivePrerequisites: FI 0210, FI 0215.In this course, students will be introduced to the forces at work thatcreate a market for various types of ﬁnancial securities. The emphasis ofthe course will be to understand the microstructure of ﬁnancial marketsand to investigate the risks and returns of various trading strategies.Students who complete the course satisfactorily will be able to designand execute trading strategies with a ﬁrm understanding of their potentialoutcomes.
FI 0310 Portfolio Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0210, junior standing.This course deals with the principles and applications of modern portfoliotheory from the point of view of both the institutional and the individualinvestor. More speciﬁcally, the course analyzes portfolio objectives,efﬁcient portfolio construction, performance evaluation, and portfolio riskmanagement using derivatives.FI 0315 Futures and Options Markets3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0210, junior standing.This course deals with options and futures on ﬁnancial assets, as well ascommodities. The course covers the basic uses of these instruments andthe various pricing methodologies based on equilibrium conditions.FI 0320 Financial Modeling3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0210 or FI 0215; junior standing.In this course, students will build ﬁnancial models in a spreadsheetenvironment. Emphasis is placed on the use of ﬁnancial models toconduct quantitative analysis and aid in decision making using advancedspreadsheet analytical tools and commands including simulation. Themodeling assignments cover a wide range of topics in corporate ﬁnanceand investment topics. The course requires group work and a ﬁnalproject.FI 0325 Seminar in Real Estate3 CreditsAttributes: FIEL Finance ElectivePrerequisites: FI 0210 or FI 0215; junior or senior standing.This course provides an in depth analysis of real estate debt and equitymarkets. Both primary and secondary markets will be studied. The coursewill cover the following topics: analysis of real estate markets; valuationof residential and commercial real estate; investment and ﬁnancing ofresidential and commercial real estate property; application of ﬁnancialmathematics to the calculation of payment streams, outstanding loanbalances, equity returns and other basic ﬁnancial measurements;secondary mortgage market securitization and the market for residentialand commercial mortgage backed securities; Real Estate InvestmentTrusts.FI 0330 Case Studies in Finance3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0210, FI 0215, senior standing.This course examines and applies the principles developed in ﬁnancialmanagement and investments in a domestic and international contextwith the objective of integrating ﬁnance practice and theory using casestudies.FI 0391 Internship3-4 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.FI 0392 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.FI 0393 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.FI 0394 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.FI 0397 Seminar in Finance3 or 6 CreditsAttributes: FIEL Finance ElectivePrerequisites: FI 0210, FI 0215; Senior standing.This is a special program that involves contemporary or specializedtopics in ﬁnance and may be offered as an independent study formatunder faculty guidance. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.Finance majors only.FI 0398 Seminar in Finance3 or 6 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0210, FI 0215; Senior standing.This is a special program that involves contemporary or specializedtopics in ﬁnance and may be offered as an independent study formatunder faculty guidance. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.Finance majors only.FI 0400 Principles of Finance3 CreditsPrerequisites: AC 0400; QA 0400.This course examines the fundamental principles of modern ﬁnancethat are helpful in understanding corporate ﬁnance, investments, andﬁnancial markets. More speciﬁcally, the course examines the time valueof money; the functioning of capital markets; valuation of stocks, bonds,and corporate investments; risk measurement; and risk management.Students learn to use sources of ﬁnancial data and spreadsheets to solveﬁnancial problems.FI 0500 Shareholder Value3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0400.This course examines business decision-making with the aim of creatingand managing value for shareholders. Accordingly, students learn how tolead and manage a business in a competitive environment. This involvesthe formulation of corporate objectives and strategies, operationalplanning, and integration of various business functions leading to greatershareholder value. Topics include investment and strategic ﬁnancialdecision-making. A business simulation facilitates the learning process.FI 0530 Corporate Finance3 CreditsThis course provides an exploration of theoretical and empirical literatureon corporate ﬁnancial policies and strategies. More speciﬁcally, thecourse deals with corporate investment decisions, capital budgetingunder uncertainty, capital structure and the cost of capital, dividends andstock repurchases, mergers and acquisitions, equity carve-outs, spin-offs,and risk management.FI 0540 Investment Analysis3 CreditsThis course examines the determinants of valuation for bonds, stocks,options, and futures, stressing the function of efﬁcient capital markets indeveloping the risk-return tradeoffs essential to the valuation process.FI 0545 Portfolio Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.Students examine how individuals and ﬁrms allocate and ﬁnancetheir resources between risky and risk-free assets to maximize utility.Students use an overall model that provides the sense that the portfolioprocess is dynamic as well as adaptive. Topics include portfolio planning,investment analysis, and portfolio selection, evaluation, and revision.
FI 0555 International Financial Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0530.The globalization of international ﬁnancial markets presents internationalinvestors and multinational corporations with new challenges regardingopportunities and risks. This course examines the international ﬁnancialenvironment of investments and corporate ﬁnance, evaluating thealternatives available to market participants in terms of risk and beneﬁts.Topics include exchange rate determination, exchange rate exposure,basic ﬁnancial equilibrium relationships, risk management including theuse of currency options and futures, international capital budgeting andcost of capital, and short-term and international trade ﬁnancing.FI 0560 Global Financial Markets and Institutions3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.This course examines ﬁnancial markets in the context of their functionin the economic system. The material deals with the complexity ofthe ﬁnancial markets and the variety of ﬁnancial institutions that havedeveloped, stressing the dynamic nature of the ﬁnancial world, which iscontinually evolving.FI 0565 Derivative Securities3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.This course offers in-depth coverage of ﬁnancial derivative securities,such as options futures and swaps. The course focuses on the principlesthat govern the pricing of these securities as well as their uses inhedging, speculation, and arbitrage activities.FI 0570 Fixed Income Securities3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.This course deals extensively with the analysis and management of ﬁxedincome securities, which constitute almost two-thirds of the market valueof all outstanding securities. The course provides an analysis of treasuryand agency securities, corporate bonds, international bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and related derivatives. More speciﬁcally, this courseprovides an in-depth analysis of ﬁxed income investment characteristics,modern valuation, and portfolio strategies.FI 0575 Capital Budgeting3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0530.This course examines the decision methods employed in long-term assetinvestment and capital budgeting policy. The course includes a study ofquantitative methods used in the capital budgeting process: simulation,mixed integer programming, and goal programming. Students use thesetechniques and supporting computer software to address questionsraised in case studies.FI 0580 Financial Risk Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.This course focuses on the evaluation and management of corporateand portfolio risk. More speciﬁcally, this course examines the methods ofevaluating and managing risk with the objective of contributing to valuemaximization. Risk assessment methodologies such as value-at-risk(VaR) and cash-flow-at-risk (Car) are analyzed and used extensively.FI 0585 Seminar: Contemporary Topics in Finance3 CreditsPrerequisites: FI 0530, FI 0540.This course presents recent practitioner and academic literature invarious areas of ﬁnance, including guest speakers where appropriate.Topics vary each semester to ﬁt the interests of the seminar participants.FI 0585D Seminar: Contemporary Topics in Finance: Rotman TradingCompetition3 CreditsFI 0595 Research Methods in Finance3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0540.This course, open to MS in Finance students only, deals extensively withapplied research methods in ﬁnance, a highly empirical discipline withpractical relevance in the models and theories used. The central role ofrisk distinguishes research methodology in ﬁnance from the methodologyused in other social sciences, necessitating the creation of newmethods of investigation that are adopted by the ﬁnance industry at anastonishingly fast rate. For example, methods of assessing stationarityand long-run equilibrium, as well as methods measuring uncertainty,found a home in the ﬁnance area. This course covers traditional andnew research methods that are directly, and in most instances, solelyapplicable to ﬁnance problems.FI 0597 Independent Research Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisite: FI 0595.This course, open to MS in Finance students only, provides participantswith the opportunity to explore a ﬁnancial topic of interest in depth,immersing students in detailed investigations requiring substantialresearch and analysis.French (FR)FR 0110 Elementary French I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with French or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.FR 0111 Elementary French II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0110.This course, a continuation of FR 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.FR 0210 Intermediate French I3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0111.This course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.) Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.FR 0211 Intermediate French II3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisite: FR 0210.This course, a continuation of FR 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practicein speaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through awide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.) Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.
FR 0219 French Syntax and Expression3 CreditsAttributes: FREL French Major or Minor CoursePrerequisite: FR 0211.This course provides a rigorous review of French grammar and syntaxand examines the critical differences between English and French.The goals of this course are to prepare students for further advancedcourses, and to use French more accurately by practicing the speciﬁcsof grammar and syntax. Furthermore, the students will examine and usethe French language in varying levels of discourse and registers, rangingfrom everyday speech to short narratives. To achieve these goals, we willexamine contemporary, historical and literary readings, which containthe grammar and syntax under study and insure that they are studied incontext.FR 0220 Topics in Language and Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0211.This course improves proﬁciency in written and oral expression byfocusing on topics in French language and culture. Students developadvanced writing and speaking skills while concentrating on grammar,style, and appropriateness. Weekly compositions, based primarily on thegenres studied (short story, theater, memoir, essay) allow students toidentify and correct grammatical mistakes. Students present speeches inclass and conduct situational dramas such as job interviews, televisionreporting, courtroom trials, debates in French. Films and various culturalartifacts (comic strips, proverbs, songs) familiarize students withidiomatic French.FR 0251 Culture and Civilization of France and the Francophone WorldI3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, explores France andFrench-speaking people in a cultural, social, and historical context. In thesecond semester the exploration moves into regions that comprise thefrancophone world. Students use multimedia, Internet, and audio-visualresources extensively and submit frequent oral and written reports.FR 0252 Culture and Civilization of France and the Francophone WorldII3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course, a continuation of FR 0251, explores France and French-speaking people in a cultural, social, and historical context. In thesecond semester the exploration moves into regions that comprise thefrancophone world. Students use multimedia, Internet, and audio-visualresources extensively and submit frequent oral and written reports.FR 0260 Introduction to Sub-Saharan African Culture3 CreditsAttributes: BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, E_AF English Literature After 1800, FREN French CourseTaught in English, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course taught in English explores the issues that confront Sub-Saharan Africa in its transformation from tradition to colonization, andﬁnally to independence through a large variety of literary texts (traditionaloral literature and modern written literature), critical theory, ﬁlms,music, and magazine and newspaper articles. Texts and ﬁlms will bediscussed from a multi-disciplinary perspective to illustrate their cultural,sociological, political, and religious import. Africa's geography and majorhistorical markers will be woven into the readings and discussions.Students taking this course for French credits will do a signiﬁcant part ofthe readings and assigned writing in French.FR 0265 French Translation Workshop3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.In this course, students develop expertise in the art and craft oftranslation. The course presents terminology, advanced grammaranalysis, and procedures that assist the translator in describing andsolving translation problems. It uses real and simulated case studiesin a variety of ﬁelds including commercial correspondence, tourism,food, transportation, telecommunications, social science, and literature.Students practice with native script, giving attention to individualinterests and majors, using French-to-English and English-to-Frenchtranslations. The class, which is conducted in both languages, useshuman, computer-based, and print resources.FR 0267 French Commercial Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This introduction to the business practices and economic situation ofFrance in the context of the European Union emphasizes commercialvocabulary and business situations presented through extensiveuse of authentic material and documents. This course, which is ofparticular interest to students seeking a career in international businessor international affairs, uses multimedia, Internet, and audio-visualresources extensively, and includes regular practice in speaking andwriting.FR 0271 Contemporary French Press and Media3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.Students read and discuss articles from representative magazines andnewspapers in French, as well as reports from television news broadcastsand the Internet. The course considers how the media and technology areshaping French society in the 21st century and discusses a wide range oftopics such as politics, education, religion, the arts, science, privacy, andcensorship. Students complete frequent oral and written reports.FR 0295 Caribbean Literature3 CreditsAttributes: ASEN American Studies: Literature, ASGW American Studies:Gateway, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC BlackStudies Component Course, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDVEducational Studies Diversity, E_AF English Literature After 1800, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course serves as an introduction to the ﬁeld of Caribbean literaturesin English and English translation, with a focus on the French-speakingCaribbean. We survey a wide range of theoretical and ﬁctional texts(poetry, short stories, novels, theatre), and introduce students to thedebate surrounding the formation of Antillean cultural identity/identities.This course examines "Caribbean literatures" with respect to theirlanguage of origin, colonization, slavery, racial experience, landscape,migration, and diaspora, speciﬁcally in Haiti, Martinique, Guadeloupe,Barbados, Trinidad, Cuba, and the Netherlands Antilles/Surinam.FR 0301 Survey of Literature in French I3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, presents achronological view of French literature, emphasizing the most importantwriters and major literary movements and themes. The ﬁrst semesterconsiders varied genres from the Middle Ages through the 17th century.The second semester studies the forces unleashed by the Revolution andconsiders the development of modern French literature.
FR 0302 Survey of Literature in French II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course, a continuation of FR 0301, presents a chronological viewof French literature, emphasizing the most important writers and majorliterary movements and themes. The ﬁrst semester considers variedgenres from the Middle Ages through the 17th century. The secondsemester studies the forces unleashed by the Revolution and considersthe development of modern French literature.FR 0305 French and Francophone Women Writers3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.The course explores a wide range of literary genres produced bywomen writers from France and the francophone world, investigatingwomen's issues such as race, gender, class, status, and power withinthe historical, political, and cultural contexts of their regions of origin.The course introduces French feminist theories. Students read andconduct discussions in French and complete frequent oral and writtenassignments.FR 0337 Literature of the 19th Century: Romanticism toNaturalism3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.From Romanticism to Naturalism, this course selects from a variety ofgenres - fantastic and exotic tales, science ﬁction, short stories, poetryand novels - to provide an overview of the rich literature of nineteenth-century France. Love, war, and the imagination contend for attentionwhile the country emerges from political and social revolution, headedtoward democracy and the Industrial Revolution. This course requiresfrequent oral reports and critical papers.FR 0366 Film and Literature in French3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.This course examines the relationship between ﬁlm and literature.Students view the ﬁlm version of each work, which serves as a basis forclass discussion. The course requires frequent oral and written works.FR 0377 Internship I3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.The internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student internsmay be required from the institution where students work. The student'swork should demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.FR 0378 Internship II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.The internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student internsmay be required from the institution where students work. The student'swork should demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.FR 0381 Coordinating Seminar I3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.Students undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of French,under the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.FR 0382 Coordinating Seminar II3 CreditsPrerequisite: FR 0219 or FR 0220.Students undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of French,under the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.FR 0399 Capstone Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.Majors in French participate in an interdisciplinary seminar in the springof their senior year. The focus of this seminar varies according to theprofessor, but possible topics include European Film, The Grand Tour,Immigration in Europe, Capital Cities, Language Teaching and Technology,Europe and America. Students research their capstone papers intarget language and present ﬁnal work in English. The instructor may,in some cases, evaluate work in the target language in consultationwith colleagues in that area of expertise in the department. Seminar isconducted in English.General Studies (GS)GS 0399 General Studies Senior Project3 or 4 CreditsThis course, required for all students earning a BA or BS degree inLiberal Studies, is typically taken during the ﬁnal semester. The coursesynthesizes and integrates students' multidisciplinary studies. Studentscomplete a project or thesis under the direction of a faculty member afterﬁrst discussing the proposed project with an academic advisor and thefaculty member. The course requires a written paper reflecting the variousdisciplines studied.German (GM)GM 0110 Elementary German I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with German or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.GM 0111 Elementary German II3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0110.This course, a continuation of GM 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.GM 0210 Intermediate German I3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0111.This course, the ﬁrst of a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.). Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.
GM 0211 Intermediate German II3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0210.This course, a continuation of GM 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through a widevariety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.). Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.GM 0220 Topics in Language and Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0211.This course improves proﬁciency in written and oral expression byfocusing on particular topics in German language and culture. Studentsdevelop advanced writing and speaking skills while concentrating ongrammar, style, and appropriateness. Weekly compositions, basedprimarily on the genres studies (short story, theater, memoir, essay) allowstudents to identify and correct grammatical mistakes. Students presentspeeches in class and conduct situational dramas such as job interviews,television reporting, courtroom trials, debates in German. Films andvarious cultural artifacts (comic strips, proverbs, songs) familiarizestudents with idiomatic German.GM 0241 German Cinema3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0211.German ﬁlmmakers are known for their artistic expression and reaction tosocial and political trends that concern the country and its citizens. Thiscourse deals with major developments of German cinema throughoutthe twentieth century and will give students an overview of majormovements, important directors, genres, and actors in the history ofGerman ﬁlm, as well as socio-political matters facing Weimar and NaziGermany, post-war West and East German states, and uniﬁed Germany.Students will be introduced to the tools of ﬁlm analysis, cinematic codes,and techniques such as narration, mise-en-scène, cinematography, sound,editing, and how these affect the viewer.GM 0251 German Civilization and Culture I3 CreditsThis course examines the main currents of German culture andcivilization through lectures, ﬁlms, the Internet, and literary and culturalreadings. Students complete frequent oral and written reports. Conductedin German, this course requires frequent oral and written reports.GM 0252 German Civilization and Culture II3 CreditsPrerequisite: GM 0251.This course examines German immigration, especially to the UnitedStates, considering in-depth the German-American experience throughlectures, ﬁlms, the Internet, and literary and cultural readings. Conductedin English, this course requires frequent oral and written reports.GM 0262 Survey of German Literature3 CreditsThis course offers an overview of German works and literary movementsfrom the Middle Ages to 1945, providing students with the fundamentalsof literary analysis in the genres of poetry, drama, novellas, novels, shortstories, and ﬁlm. The course requires frequent oral and written reports.GM 0291 Modern German Literature3 CreditsThis course introduces students to a variety of German literature andgenres written in the 20th century. All works are heavily influenced by thetwo world wars. The literary canon includes a text by Kafka, portrayinghope and despair, and Anna Seghers' poems and short stories written inexile portraying the various social and political changes in West Germany,and the essays by the East German writer Christa Wolf that deals withloyalty and dissidence. The course also addresses narrative strategiesand the challenges faced by the translator. Furthermore, we talk aboutthe different roles literature can play, including the influence and value infurthering the understanding of material to contextualize the readings.Particular interest is the portrayal of social and political issues.GM 0377 Internship3 CreditsThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student internsmay be required from the institution where students work. The student'swork should demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.GM 0378 Internship3 CreditsThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student internsmay be required from the institution where students work. The student'swork should demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.GM 0381 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Germanunder the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.GM 0382 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Germanunder the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.GM 0399 Capstone Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.Majors in German participate in an interdisciplinary seminar in the springof their senior year. The focus of this seminar varies according to theprofessor, but possible topics include European Film, The Grand Tour,Immigration in Europe, Capital Cities, Language Teaching and Technology,Europe and America. Students research their capstone papers intarget language and present ﬁnal work in English. The instructor may,in some cases, evaluate work in the target language in consultationwith colleagues in the area of expertise in the department. Seminar isconducted in English.
Graphic Design (GD)GD 0201 Graphic Design I: Making Meaning3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of four preparatory classes in the GraphicDesign minor.In today's world, we are literally surrounded by graphic design, frombillboards to soda cans, from Facebook pages to political ads. Thegraphic designer develops engaging material that communicates apointed message and persuades an audience. This class focuses on thebasic ingredients of graphic design: typography, image, and color. Wefurther explore the combination of these elements into compositions,utilizing proximity, alignment, contrast and repetition. We engage inthe complexity of the creative process, developing a strong designer'sprocess, working both by hand and on the computer. Being critical ofdesign is an essential element of designing. Therefore, we will analyzedesigns for their efﬁcacy, as we lay the foundation for further study ingraphic design. In addition to personal sketchbooks, we will use AdobePhotoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and AfterEffects software.GD 0202 Graphic Design II: Clients and Collaboration3 CreditsPrerequisite: GD 0201.This course will address the relationship between the graphic designerand the client. What can a designer do when the client speciﬁes a"cleaner" logo? How can a designer respond when a client says, "I don'tknow what I want, but it's not that"? We will practice essential researchand analysis skills, as well as the questions that designers can askclients, to help both parties understand the goals of any given design.We will also examine the variety of delivery systems for graphic design,from printed to electronic media, and how they affect both layout andﬁle formats. We will continue to develop expressive skills using text,image and layout. We will also continue to engage in the complexity ofthe creative process, developing a strong designer's process, workingboth by hand and on the computer. We will also continue to develop ourdesign sense by critically analyzing designs.Greek (GR)GR 0111 Elementary Attic Greek3 CreditsStudents study the grammar of Attic Greek. The course employs readingsin easier authors to develop a practical reading knowledge of ancientGreek.GR 0210 Intermediate Greek Readings I3 CreditsPrerequisite: GR 0111.This course includes intensive reading of selected authors of moderatedifﬁculty in various genres, with extensive readings in translation, to givea survey of classical Greek literature.GR 0211 Intermediate Greek Readings II3 CreditsPrerequisite: GR 0210.This course, a continuation of GR 0210, includes intensive reading ofselected authors of moderate difﬁculty in various genres, with extensivereadings in translation, to give a survey of classical Greek literature. Thetwo-semester course fulﬁlls the core requirement in foreign languages.GR 0325 Advanced Greek Readings I3 CreditsPrerequisites: GR 0210, GR 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected works of ancient Greek literature.GR 0326 Advanced Greek Readings II3 CreditsPrerequisites: GR 0210, GR 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected works of ancient Greek literature.GR 0327 Advanced Greek Readings III3 CreditsPrerequisites: GR 0210, GR 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected works of ancient Greek literature.GR 0328 Advanced Greek Readings IV3 CreditsPrerequisites: GR 0210, GR 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected works of ancient Greek literature.Health Studies (HS)HS 0101 Introduction to Health Studies3 CreditsPrerequisite: Sophomore standing or higher.This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to the evolution ofhealthcare in America. The course will apply a social science lens tothe assessment of various healthcare co-cultures, including: providers,patients, and insurers. The impact of technology, pharmaceuticals, andmedical devices on patient longevity, wellness, and disease managementwill be explored. In addition, the dialectical tensions created by acutecare/disease-focused vs. quality-of-life/wellness-centric healthcaredelivery models will be examined. The evolving economic burdens of: anaging population, uninsured Americans, expanding technology, providerspecialization, and fewer healthcare gatekeepers on the U.S. healthcaresystem will also be assessed.HS 0200 Health Communication for Healthcare Professionals3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisite: Juniors or senior standing.This course will examine the processes and complexities of healthcommunication with an applied focus. The primary purpose of thiscourse is to provide an understanding of the methods and symbols usedto communicate information about health. The course will evaluateand explore the multidimensional processes used to create, maintain,and transform complex scientiﬁc realities into everyday healthcareinformation for providers, patients, families, etc. In addition, studentsare required to do 20 hours of service learning at the VA Hospital in WestHaven, CT. Open only to Nursing majors and Health Studies minors.Previously CO 0248H.HS 0399 Health Studies Capstone3 CreditsPrerequisites: HS 0101; completion of at least two health studieselectives.The Health Studies Capstone allows the student to integrate and reflecton the wealth of information learned in HS 0101 and the three electivecourses in the minor. Students will undertake an independent researchproject in some area of Health Studies, and through discussions withthe professor and other students, dissect and analyze their theme froma broad range of perspectives. The project will culminate with both awritten paper, and an oral or poster presentation at the annual HealthStudies symposium in the spring. Enrollment by permission only.Hebrew (HE)HE 0110 Elementary Hebrew I3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorDesigned for students with no prior experience with Hebrew or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.
HE 0111 Elementary Hebrew II3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HE 0110.This course, a continuation of HE 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.HE 0210 Intermediate Hebrew I3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HE 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.). Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.HE 0211 Intermediate Hebrew II3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HE 0210.This course, a continuation of HE 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through a widevariety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.). Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.History (HI)HI 0010 Origins of the Modern World Since 15003 CreditsThe course, which examines the history of Europe and its relationshipto the world from the end of the Middle Ages through the 19th century,emphasizes the cultural, social, economic, and political forces andstructures that led to the development of commercial and industrialcapitalism, and the effects of this development on Europe, the New World,Asia, and Africa. Topics include the Renaissance and Reformation; theTransatlantic Slave Trade; European expansion and colonialism; thedevelopment of strong nation states; the Enlightenment; the IndustrialRevolution and conflicting ideological and political responses; changingsocial, family, and gender relationships; and the increasing interaction ofEuropeans and non-Europeans. Critical analysis of primary and secondarysources develops skills in historical methodology that are of greatvalue in many other academic pursuits. Written assignments and classdiscussions enhance these skills.HI 0201 History of Western Science3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course is an introduction to the history of western science fromantiquity to the present. Science informs our understanding of andinteraction with every aspect of the world around us. In this course wewill explore the historical paths that brought us to our contemporaryunderstanding of the core sciences. We will examine scientists and theirscience within the broader historical contexts that shaped their lives andwork. We will think critically about how scientiﬁc knowledge is createdand the way society has used and abused scientiﬁc information.HI 0202 Health and Healing in America, 1650-1980: History of WesternMedicine3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, H_AFHistory After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines major themes and problems in the history of healthand medicine in America. Students will explore the changing conceptionsof health, illness, and disease from the colonial period through the 20thcentury in the U.S. Students will analyze the economic, political andcultural forces that helped shape the activities of patients and medicalpractitioners within an evolving medical marketplace. This course willintroduce students to the perspectives of a wide range of sufferers andhealers. Students will examine how medical theories, gender, race, class,and ethnicity have shaped the history of medicine in complex ways.HI 0203 European Society Middle Ages3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, H_BFHistory Before 1750, H_EU European History, ISIC Italian Studies: ItalyComponentPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the social history of Europe from the barbarianmigrations of the ﬁfth century until the end of the Hundred Years War.From feudalism and the concept of courtly love, to the bitter powerstruggles of popes and monarchs, the course emphasizes emerginginstitutions, secular and religious, that came to deﬁne Western Europein this and subsequent ages and to provide its most enduring rifts andhatreds. The course offers in-depth consideration of the role of womenin medieval society, the persecution of Jews and other minorities, theCrusades, and the Black Death, with particular focus on their impacton the lives of average Europeans. Students read from primary andsecondary sources.HI 0205 Anti-Semitism: Medieval to Modern3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, H_BF HistoryBefore 1750, H_EU European History, JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course surveys the history of Jewish-Christian interaction inEurope from late antiquity until the Dreyfus Affair, with emphasis onthe 10 centuries between the ninth and the 19th. Using primary andsecondary sources, literature, and ﬁlm, students explore the complexrelationships between Jews and Christians in these years, includingoften overlapping instances of persecution, segregation, disputation,coexistence, assimilation, and cooperation. The major political events,social shifts, and intellectual trends that profoundly altered Europeansociety in this extended period provide the backdrop against which thechanging lives of Jewish and Christian Europeans are studied.HI 0210 The Third Reich3 CreditsAttributes: GMEL German Major or Minor Course, GMEN German CourseTaught in English, H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, JSTJudaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the origins and legacy of the Nazi dictatorshipduring the years 1933-1945. We begin by analyzing the factors thatfacilitated the Nazis' rise to power including the long-term peculiaritiesof German history, the short-term crises of the years 1918-33, and therelationship between Hitler and the German people. Thereafter, the courseexamines the social, economic, political, and cultural life of the ThirdReich during the years, 1933-39, before turning to Hitler's unleashingof World War II and the Holocaust in the years 1939-45. The courseconcludes by surveying the Nazi era's lingering legacy in postwar Germanand European memory.
HI 0212 Modern Germany: From Reich to Republic3 CreditsAttributes: GMEL German Major or Minor Course, GMEN German CourseTaught in English, H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, JSTJudaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the turbulent history of modern Germany fromthe Second German Empire, or Kaiserreich, to the present-day FederalRepublic. Themes include the destabilizing emergence of Germany asa great power in the late 19th century, the outbreak of World War I, thecollapse of the Empire, and the revolutionary upheaval of 1918 to 1919.The course examines the birth of the ill-fated Weimar Republic, the riseof Nazism, and the establishment of the Third Reich before moving toHitler's unleashing of World War II, his genocidal campaign against theJews, and Germany's ensuing wartime devastation, occupation, anddivision. The course concludes with an examination of the postwarpolitical, social, and cultural development of West and East Germanythrough the nation's uniﬁcation in 1990.HI 0213 In the Wake of Destruction: Europe Since World War II3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course surveys the major political, social, and cultural trendsthat have swept Europe since 1945. Themes include the struggle toreconstruct a stable political order in the immediate aftermath of WWII,the conservative retrenchment of the 1950s, the New Left radicalism ofthe 1960s, the neo-conservative reaction of the late 1970s and 1980s,the alleged "end of history" following the revolutions of 1989, andEurope's political future in the post-9/11 age of globalization. Against thebackdrop of these political trends, we examine how the trauma of war, theachievement of economic prosperity, the upsurge in anti-establishmentradicalism, the emergence of a multicultural European society, andfears of decline have affected a wide range of cultural realms, spanningliterature, philosophy, art, architecture, and ﬁlm.HI 0214 Modern Jewish History3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, JST JudaicStudies MinorPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course surveys the history of the Jewish people from the middle ofthe eighteenth century up to the present day. Following a brief survey ofthe ancient and medieval periods, we will examine the social, political,and cultural changes brought about by the dawning of the JewishEnlightenment, the struggle for political emancipation, and the pursuitof religious reform in Western and Eastern Europe. We will then examinemodern anti-Semitism, Zionism, the Holocaust, and the founding ofthe state of Israel. The course concludes by surveying the history ofAmerican Jewry.HI 0215 Ireland: Middle Ages to the Present3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, H_BF HistoryBefore 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines political, religious, economic, and socialdevelopments in the Irish island from early medieval times to thepresent day. Topics include Celtic culture and civilization, the coming ofChristianity, the Viking and Norman invasions, the English conquests inthe 16th and 17th centuries, the 18th-century Protestant ascendancy, thesubsequent struggle for Catholic emancipation and home rule, the PotatoFamine of 1845 to 1850, the struggle for independence during the early20th century, the ultimate establishment of the Irish republic, the currentproblems in Northern Ireland, and the historical ties between Ireland andthe United States.HI 0216 Rise of the British Empire3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the history of Britain and of British overseasexpansion between 1400 and 1800: the Tudor-Stuart conquest of Ireland;the establishment of the North American colonies and West Indianplantations; the growth of British power in India during the 18th century,the loss of the Thirteen Colonies, and the beginnings of British rule inCanada. Students study the causes and effects of imperial expansionfrom the standpoints of British political development, British society,English-speaking colonists, African slaves, and Native Americans.HI 0217 Britain and Its Empire Since 18003 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the history of Britain and the British Empire fromits great 19th-century expansion into Africa and Asia to its eventualcrumbling under the impact of 20th-century independence movementsand global war. Students compare the various independence movements,from the relatively peaceful transitions of Canada and Australia to themore violent ones by Ireland, South Africa, and India. The course ﬁnisheswith an examination of the current racial and cultural conflicts that besetBritain's former colonies, with particular focus upon Ireland and SouthAfrica.HI 0220 Ancient African Civilizations3 CreditsAttributes: BSCP Black Studies Capstone Course, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, H_BF History Before 1750, H_NW Non-Western History,ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This class introduces the civilizations of the ancient Nile Valley, Egypt,Nubia and Ethiopia. It also provides an introduction to the transformationand survival of those civilizations into the medieval and modern worlds.Lectures will cover the social and political history of Pharaonic Egypt;the transformations of Egypt under Greco-Roman rule; the emergence ofindependent Nubia; the birth of a centralized and literate society in theEthiopian highlands; the Christianization of Egypt, Nubia, and Ethiopia;the survival of Nubia and Ethiopia as independent medieval powers; andthe historical memory of modern Copts, Nubians and Ethiopians.HI 0221 Hellenistic World, 336-30 BCE3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course examines the Mediterranean world and the ancient Near Eastfrom the late fourth to late ﬁrst centuries BC. Focus is on: the career ofAlexander the Great; the Greek kingdoms that emerge after the collapseof his empire; the interaction between local cultures and religions, e.g.Egypt, ancient Judaism, and Greek civilization; the social history of dailylife in conquered lands under Greek rule; and the transformations in theHellenistic world with the arrival of Roman rule.HI 0222 The Roman Revolution3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, ISIF ItalianStudies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This comprehensive study of the political, social, artistic, literary, andmilitary transformation of Rome from the middle of the second centuryBCE through the reign of Augustus gives special attention to Rome'sresponse to the cultural and governmental challenges imposed by itsgrowing empire and how its responses forever changed the course ofWestern civilization.
HI 0223 The Roman World in Late Antiquity, 284-642 AD3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, ISIC ItalianStudies: Italy ComponentPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course examines the Mediterranean world from the third to seventhcenturies AD. Focus is on: the collapse of the Roman Empire in westernEurope; the dramatic upheavals caused by the arrival in the RomanEmpire of the Visigoths, Vandals, and other barbarian tribes; the survivalof the Byzantine East through the early Islamic conquests; the riseof Christianity from a persecuted religion to the ofﬁcial religion ofthe Roman Empire; and the accompanying cultural transformations,including the rise of monasticism and the importance of the holy man.HI 0224 Byzantine World3 CreditsAttributes: H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course is an introduction to political and social history of ByzantineEmpire. It also highlights Byzantium's role as a bridge between Greco-Roman antiquity and modern European civilization. Course lectureswill cover Byzantium's origins in the eastern half of the Roman Empire,Byzantium's middle period as a major Mediterranean power, and itslate period as an increasingly shrinking city-state. The course will alsointroduce students to some of the major Byzantine historians and tomethods of analysis using these sources, and train students to formhistorical arguments based on these analyses.HI 0230 Early Modern France3 CreditsAttributes: FREN French Course Taught in English, H_BF History Before1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course covers the political, social, and cultural development ofFrance from the 16th-century Wars of Religion to the ascension ofNapoleon I in 1804, with an emphasis on the effects of revolutionarychange on daily life (including the role of women, popular piety, thechurch and religious dissent, and labor relations), and on the impactof new political languages beyond the borders of France itself. Sourcereadings, from the salon writings of the Bourbon court to the raucoussongs of the streets of Paris, aid in considering if a French identity wasformed during the period.HI 0237 American Prophetic Tradition3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJSTPeace and Justice StudiesPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This Ignatian Residential College course explores the experiences ofindividuals and social movements throughout U.S. history, who froma variety of religious and philosophical traditions found meaning intheir lives and made an impact on U.S. society. Individuals range fromMary Dyer and Roger Williams to Lucretia Mott, Walter Rauschenbusch,Dorothy Day, John Cardinal Murray, and Jonathan Kozol, from theabolitionists to the anti-war movement.HI 0238 19th Century United States3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, BSCC Black StudiesComponent Course, BSHI Black Studies: History, EDCG EducationalStudies Cognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_AFHistory After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Students study the major transformations in U.S. economy, society, andpolitics from the Federalist era, through the Civil War to the beginningof the Progressive Era. The course analyzes forces of change in theUnited States - the struggle over slavery, as well as urbanization,industrialization, the maturation of corporate capitalism, and thegrowing importance of international affairs - and their effects on the waypeople lived, thought, and acted. The experiences of African-Americans,immigrants, and women receive special attention.HI 0239 20th Century United States3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, BSCC Black StudiesComponent Course, BSHI Black Studies: History, EDCG EducationalStudies Cognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_AFHistory After 1750, H_US U.S. History, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course surveys developments in American social, political, andeconomic life since 1900. Major themes include problems of advancedindustrial society, the growing government role in the economy, America'sgrowing role in the world, and social movements of the 1930s and 1960s.Ethnic and cultural diversity within American society receive attention.HI 0240 The Personal Is Political: Women's Activism in the1960s3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJST Peace andJustice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Little fanfare and much derision accompanied the re-emergence of awomen's movement in the mid-1960s. Within less than a decade, massivechanges were underway. From the dismantling of gendered employmentads to the identiﬁcation of domestic violence as a crime, few arguedthat Second Wave Feminism was meaningless. Students in this coursediscuss the depth and range of women's grass roots activism as wellas the features of a social movement; they trace the development ofconsciousness, the growth of different ideologies, and the formation ofagendas. The course also explores movement fault lines such as theﬁctive category of woman, racism, and "structurelessness," in additionto the difﬁculties of sustaining coalition. From the Montgomery busboycott in 1955 to the Houston Conference 22 years later, studentsencounter the women who illuminated the political nature of issues oncerelegated to the private arena. Course material includes extensive use ofautobiography.
HI 0241 Examining the Sixties3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, UDIV U.S.DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course, offered by two historians who specialize in 20th-centuryAmerican history, explores the 1960s from the dual perspectives ofhistory and the arts. Political and artistic change happened concurrentlyin this era, and was often instigated by people who promoted societalchange via the creation of art. The course approaches the period as "thelong '60s," beginning in the early 1950s and ending in 1975 with the U.S.withdrawal of forces from Vietnam. Class sessions combine lecture,discussion, and experiential events as a means of understanding how artand activism worked hand-in-hand.HI 0242 Immigration, Race, and Ethnicity in U.S. History3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSHI Black Studies:History, H_AF History After 1750, H_RE History: Research Paper, H_USU.S. History, JST Judaic Studies Minor, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This thematically arranged intensive reading, writing, and discussionseminar on the history of U.S. immigration in the 19th and 20th centuriessituates the United States within the context of global migration patternsand economic development. Students investigate patterns of migrationand community settlement, family strategies of survival and adaptation,and immigrant cultures. They analyze how successive groups ofimmigrants were received by U.S. society by examining the origins andeffects of recurrent waves of racism, nativism, and ethnic and classantagonism that pervade American history.HI 0243 American Constitutional and Legal History I: 1776-19003 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course covers the origins of the American constitutional tradition,the manifold heritage of the American Revolution, Jeffersonianrepublicanism and federal judicial power, nationalism and thecentralization of the Marshall court, the reaction on the Taney court,slavery and sectionalism, the Civil War, Reconstruction, the SecondAmerican Constitution, and the Gilded Age turn in American law.HI 0244 American Constitutional and Legal History II: 1900 toPresent3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the latter portion of the Fuller court, Imperialismand the Constitution, governmental efforts to restore economiccompetition, the police power, economic reform, progressivism, thetradition of national supremacy, new turns in civil liberties, the New Dealand the old Supreme Court, civil rights and the incorporation theory of the14th amendment, and new roads back to legal conservatism.HI 0245 Feminism in the United States3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJSTPeace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Participants study feminism based on the premise that it is a multi-faceted struggle for women's autonomy and self-determination. Thecourse focuses largely on the United States, birthplace of the ﬁrstorganized women's movement; however, it periodically expands itsview beyond the United States for purposes of comparison. Studentsanalyze the development of the feminist movement as well as feministtheory during the 19th and 20th centuries and explore the discourse ongender mediated by race and class, and its impact on women's lives.Using primary and secondary sources, students work toward a historicaldeﬁnition of feminism.HI 0246 Women and Gender in U.S. History3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, EDCG Educational StudiesCognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_AF History After1750, H_US U.S. History, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course surveys American women's history from the colonial erato the present, exploring the impact as well as the interdependence ofgender, race, and class on experience. Although the term social historydescribes the course approach, it uses biography to illuminate key issuesand enrich student perspectives. Through careful examination of primaryand secondary sources, the course pursues two themes: the interplay ofgender constructs through the myths and realities of women's lives, andthe crucial role women played in transforming public and private space.The course views women as agents whose testimony and actions arevital to understanding our history.HI 0247 Family and Sexuality in U.S. History3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, UDIV U.S.Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the growing scholarship in the ﬁelds of familyhistory and sexual history in America. Students will explore the changingmeanings of family, love, intimacy, emotions and sexuality from thecolonial period through the 20th century in the U.S. Students will analyzethe economic, political and cultural forces that helped shape sexual andfamily history. This course will introduce students to a wide range ofAmerican families and sexualities in history, examining how race, class,and ethnicity have made familial formation, sexual behavior and personalidentity richly varied and complex.
HI 0250 America Enters the World: United States Foreign Relations,1763-19003 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Students explore the foundation of U.S. foreign relations fromindependence in 1776 to the outbreak of World War I in 1914. This courselooks closely at the interrelationship between ideals and reality as thenew United States struggled to protect and conﬁrm its independence,establish a constitutional basis for foreign policy, and expand its bordersand influence across the North American continent and around the world.The course discusses such questions as manifest destiny, the MonroeDoctrine, the Mexican War, the displacement of Native Americans,southern expansionism and the Civil War, the Spanish American War, andthe open door policy as the United States became a world power on theeve of World War I.HI 0251 The American Century: The United States and the World Since19003 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, EDCG Educational StudiesCognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_AF History After1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the development, crises, and turning points in U.S.relations with the world from Woodrow Wilson to the present, exploringissues such as U.S. reactions to the Russian Revolution, World War I,isolationism and the coming of World War II, the Grand Alliance, theorigins and development of the Cold War, the nuclear arms race, theVietnam War, the United States and Latin America, U.S./Soviet relations,the Middle East and Persian Gulf crises, and the post-Cold-War world.HI 0253 Early America to 18003 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, EDCG Educational StudiesCognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_BF History Before1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This study of the foundations of American civilization compares thecolonial systems of Spain, France, and England. The course stresses thedevelopment of the British colonies in New England, the mid-Atlantic, andthe South, with special emphasis on such topics as Puritanism, the GreatAwakening, and the Enlightenment in America. The course continuesthrough the American Revolution and the early United States to 1800.The role of outsiders -- free and enslaved Africans, women and AmericanIndians -- is stressed.HI 0256 Introduction to Public History3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course presents the ﬁeld of Public History, which is the applicationof academic historical knowledge for presentation to the general publicin a manner that enhances the public's understanding of historicalchange. It gives students the skills to think about and write local history,by exploring the bases for historical analysis through evaluation ofprimary-source documents and familiarity with secondary historicalinterpretations. Through service-learning projects, students will servecommunity partners such as the Fairﬁeld Museum and History Center, theBridgeport Public Library Historical Collections, and the Barnum Museum,by contributing historical research, designing exhibitions, and preparingcurriculum lesson plans.HI 0257 Who Built America? Working People in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASHI American Studies:History, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, EDCG Educational StudiesCognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S. History Course, H_AF History After1750, H_US U.S. History, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGC Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender ComponentPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course explores the history of working people's lives and socialmovements in the U.S. from the pre-industrial era, through the IndustrialRevolution, to today's "post-industrial" society. This is not an IndustrialRelations course. We look at three broad areas of historical change: 1)work itself; 2) the making and re-making of the American working class;and 3) the deﬁnitions of social justice that working people constructedfor themselves and that informed their social movements. Our goal isto understand how and why the "Labor Question" was at the heart ofAmerican reform movements in the 19th and 20th centuries. Specialattention will be given to the experiences of women, African Americans,and other racial and ethnic groups.HI 0260 American Indian History3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education MinorU.S. History Course, H_BF History Before 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJSTPeace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.After a broad survey of prehistoric Indian cultures in North America asthey existed before contact with Europeans, this course focuses uponEuropean contact and its effects on Native-American culture. The courseexplores the Native American's role in the colonial period of eastern NorthAmerican history and the ways in which Native American societies westof the Mississippi River responded to U.S. expansion in the 19th centuryand to that of the Spanish earlier. The evolution of federal Indian policyfrom the American Revolution to the late 20th century is a major topic.HI 0262 African-American History, 1619 to 18653 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSHI Black Studies:History, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S.History Course, H_BF History Before 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the role that Africans played in the building ofAmerica after their forced migration to these shores. It emphasizes therise of the plantation system, the cultural transformation of Africans intoAfrican-Americans, and the essential roles that slaves and slavery playedin the emergence of the United States as an independent nation and itspolitical and economic consolidation into a modern nation-state. Slavesand free blacks ﬁgure in this history, not just as tools and backdrop, butas social and political actors, rebels, and major builders of Americancivilization.
HI 0263 Inventing Themselves: African-American Women in U.S.History3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSHI Black Studies:History, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S.History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.At the intersection of race, gender, and class, African-American womenoften challenged the codiﬁcation of blackness and femaleness as well asa limited conception of class consciousness. From the diaspora to thepresent, they created forms of resistance, devised survival strategies, andtransmitted cultural knowledge while defying racial/gender stereotypes.The multiple roles assumed by African-American women during theirstruggle from slaves to citizens in the United States represent a complexstudy of the relational nature of difference and identity. This coursefocuses on African-American women as subjects and agents of pivotalimportance within the family, community, and labor force.HI 0264 African-American History, 1865 to Present3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSHI Black Studies:History, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDUS Education Minor U.S.History Course, H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. History, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the role people of African descent played as freedpeople and free people during Reconstruction, the Gilded Age, and the20th century. It emphasizes the Southern origins of African America, thepolitics and economic activism of common people, and the recurringtheme of struggle against racial injustice.HI 0265 History of the Indian Subcontinent: Colonialism, Nationalism,and Democracy, c.1857-Today3 CreditsAttributes: H_NW Non-Western History, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Faced with unrivaled questions of diversity, poverty, and scale, SouthAsia has been a crucial laboratory in the making of political modernity.India, with a population numbering over a billion, is the world's largestdemocracy. Pakistan was the world's ﬁrst Muslim "homeland" and"nation." Beginning with an examination of the colonial period, this coursereconsiders partition, and then follows the postcolonial trajectories ofIndia, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. We explore innovative and divergentimaginations of the future, and of democracy in particular. We encounterHindu nationalists, communists, socialists, liberals, anarchists, Islamists,and Muslim nationalists, revolutionaries, and the inescapable MahatmaGandhi.HI 0270 History of Global Humanitarian Action3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course, an intermediate (second core) history course, surveys thehistory of global humanitarian action in the face of famine, war, plague,natural disaster, refugees and other crises, since the middle of thenineteenth century. We will focus on intervention by European powers,the United States, the international community, and non-governmentalactors. Special focus in case studies will be on 20th century war, famine,and genocide. Each student will research a case study with a focus onpotential points of life-saving intervention.HI 0271 Introduction to Russian History, Culture, and Civilization3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This intermediate level history and culture course will introduce studentsto the multiple facets of Russian identity. Embracing the period from EastSlavic settlements in the ninth century to contemporary Russia underYeltsin, Putin and Medvedev, the course will survey major themes thatcontributed to the creation of the Russian archetype. The idiosyncrasiesof Russia's geographic location, the enduring presence of RussianOrthodoxy, the complex relationship with the West, debates about"Russianness" among the Russian intelligentsia and the context of theSoviet Union and its disintegration, will be explored through literary texts,ﬁlm, and signiﬁcant works of art.HI 0272 Russia, 700-1700: History and Myth3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course is a survey of the eastern forest-steppe frontier of Europe(the territory of what is now Russia, Ukraine, and Belorussia) from its ﬁrstpagan rulers up to Russian Tsar Peter the Great, covering such themes asRussian Orthodoxy, the Mongol invasion, the growth of the Russian Stateand the founding of the Russian empire.HI 0273 History and Culture of Central and Eastern Europe Since19453 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This core history course explores the extraordinary story ofaccommodation, resistance, and oppression in Central and EasternEuropean societies during the second half of the 20th century and thecrucial role that cultural and intellectual forces played from the periodof fascist and wartime occupation, through the communist period tothe overthrow of communism and the development of new societiesin the period 1985 to the present. The course interweaves ﬁlm fromPoland, the Czech and Slovak Republics, and Hungary, historical texts anddocuments, and memoirs and writings of key dissident intellectuals, suchas Vaclav Havel.HI 0274 Historical Perspectives on Contemporary Global Crises3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, H_AFHistory After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, H_US U.S. History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines, using topical, geographic, and critical approaches,the interaction of the United States and western Europe with the restof the world in the 20th century, giving considerable attention to non-Western perspectives such as those of Asia, Africa, Latin America,the Arab world, Russia, and Eastern Europe. The course also includesan introduction to the history of U.S. foreign relations, internationalorganizations, social change in the developing world, and world systemstheory.HI 0275 Russia's Road to Revolution3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Topics in this course include the modernization of Russia since Peter theGreat; the impact of Western culture in the 18th century; Catherine theGreat as reformer; intellectual protest against autocracy and serfdom;revolutionary ferment: Slavophiles and Westerners; from populism toMarxism-Leninism; the revolution of 1905; the industrialization of Russiato 1914; and the revolutions of 1917.
HI 0276 St. Petersburg in Russian History3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, WDIV WorldDiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Students explore the history of Russia from Peter the Great to the presentthrough the political, social, and cultural heritage of Peter's city - St.Petersburg - Russia's "window on the west." St. Petersburg served asimperial Russia's capital from 1703 to 1918. After the consolidationof Soviet power, St. Petersburg (as Leningrad) continued to play a keyrole in 20th-century Russian social, political, and cultural history. Thecollapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 led to the rebirth of St. Petersburgas a cultural center. The course emphasizes historical sites and culturalaccomplishments of St. Petersburg through the use of slides, video, andmusic.HI 0278 A Cultural History of China's Relations with the UnitedStates3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.International relations are often conceptualized as power rivalry, stressingconflicts and collaboration among nations in international politics andpolitical economy. In this course the Chinese-American relations areviewed as a history of people and cultural exchange, not just a top-downhistory of diplomacy and politics. Using culture rather than politics oreconomics as a reference point, this course exams China-US relationssince the 19th century to the present from the interaction of culturalexchanges between the Chinese and Americans. Topics include: ChineseExclusion Act of 1882, Messengers of the 19th century from both,China and United States, The Internationalization of China and UnitedStates: Educators of the 1920s, the Journalists of the 1930s and 1940s,Literature Imagination in China and United Sates, and Popular Cultureand Sino-American Relations. The format of the course includes lectures,group discussions, debates and audio-visual presentations.HI 0279 China from the Classical Time to the 1800s3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.To many people China is one of the most mysterious and intriguingcivilizations. Its fascinating concepts of philosophy, government, religion,art, and science that formed several thousand years ago continue toinfluence the modern world. This course examines the history, culture,self-image, worldview, and the ideas and institutions that shaped Chinaand its people from the classical time to the 1800s. It is difﬁcult tocover several thousand years of Chinese civilization in one semester.However, after this course, students should emerge with basic knowledgeof Chinese culture and people. This course is an analytical survey ofmajor topics and themes in Chinese history and culture. The format ofthe course includes lectures, group discussion, debate, and audio-visualpresentation.HI 0280 The West and the Middle East3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines Western and Middle Eastern relations from the18th century to the present, relating recurring upheavals of the MiddleEast, including conflicts between ethnic-religious groups and economicclasses, to structural transformations that have developed across twocenturies. Topics include Western colonization and conquest; MiddleEastern nationalism; the Arab-Israeli conflict; the economics and politicsof oil; and the Islamic revival.HI 0281 Portrait of the Arabs3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This interdisciplinary course provides a broad introduction to Arabculture and society in the past and present, using novels, poetry, ﬁlms,and scholarly studies to investigate contemporary issues and theirrelationship to a complex historical legacy. Topics include the formationof Arab identity; the relationship of city and countryside; women and thefamily; literature; the arts and architecture; and nation building.HI 0284 20th Century Russia3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, WDIV WorldDiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course covers such major themes as the impact of the 1905 and1917 revolutions; Lenin, War Communism, and the new economic policy;Stalin, collectivization, and the Great Purges; the Russian war experienceand the Cold War; Khrushchev, reform, and de-Stalinization; Brezhnev,stagnation, and detente; Gorbachev, glasnost, perestroika, and politicaland economic crisis; the Revolution of 1987 to 1991; and post-SovietRussia.HI 0285 Modern China: 1800 to Present3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the major developments in modern Chinese historyfrom about 1800 to the present to show China's transformation from asemi-colonial country in the 19th century to a major player in world affairstoday. Topics include the Opium Wars, the impact of imperialism on Chinaand China's response to it, the revolutionary movements of the ﬁrst twodecades of the 1900s, the rise of nationalism and Chinese Communism,the anti-Japanese War, the history of the People's Republic of China, thecurrent economic reform movement and social changes, and China's rolein the new world order.HI 0286 The Rise of Modern Japan: 1800 to Present3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the transformation of Japan from the lateTokugawa period in the 1800s to the emergence of Japan as a post-industrial society. It focuses on historical forces and events, and onthe efforts of Japanese women and men that have shaped Japan'stransition from a late developing industrial nation during the Meiji period(1868-1912) to a great economic power in the 20th century. The dramaticsocial, political, economic, and cultural changes of the 1980s and 1990sreceive attention. Students compare Japan's path to modernization withthat of the West.
HI 0288 Colonial Latin America, 1492-18003 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, H_BF HistoryBefore 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective,PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course examines Indian cultures, Portuguese and Spanishinstitutions, and values on the eve of the conquests, including the clashof cultures and interests, and three ensuing centuries of New Worlddialectics: conquistadores, viceroys, colonists, priests, friars, Indiancaciques and peasants, black slaves, and free mulattoes mutuallyinteracting and forming, by 1800, a new civilization composed of varyinghybrid cultures from the Rio Grande to Tierra del Fuego. The course alsoconsiders the Iberian colonies on the eve of the 19th-century revolutionsfor independence.HI 0289 Modern Latin America, 1800-Present3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course introduces students to the concrete actors and eventsthat have shaped politics, culture, and society in Latin America fromthe nineteenth century wars of independence to the present. Throughscholarly readings, primary source documents, literature, music, and ﬁlm,we will explore the imprint of Spanish and Portuguese colonial rule, thestruggles to consolidate nation-states, the efforts to "modernize" in thelate nineteenth century, and the extremes that Latin America experiencedduring the twentieth century. Among the varied topics to be exploredin detail will be labor and slavery, citizenship, changing gender roles,urbanization, mass politics and social revolution, and transitions fromdictatorship to democracy. The course will also include a considerationof Latin America's changing relationship with the outside world, andparticularly with its powerful neighbor to the north.HI 0294 The Middle East Under the Ottoman Empire3 CreditsAttributes: H_NW Non-Western History, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course will trace the history of the Ottoman Empire from 1500 to1920. Focusing on the social, cultural and economic topics in the historyof the Middle East during the Ottoman Era, it will treat diverse themesincluding, but not limited to, Islamic law and mysticism, households,slavery, the socio-political role of women and non-Muslims, epidemics,and natural disasters.HI 0297 Power, Politics, History: U.S.-Latin American Relations from the1800s to the Present3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Culture and Literature,PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.In this course, students examine the political, economic, social, andcultural repercussions of US-Latin American relations from the mid-19thcentury to the present. We will study cases of overt US politicalintervention and conflict, as well as less dramatic but ongoing formsof influence. While we will seek to understand what has led the UnitedStates to intervene so frequently in Latin America, our work will also payclose attention to the multiple ways that social actors throughout theAmericas have constructed their national and cultural imaginaries acrosstime, and in dialogue with one another.HI 0298 Historical Geography3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Historical geography applies the tools of geography to the phenomenaand events of the past. Maps, statistics, and an understanding of howpeople interact with the physical world allow the historical geographer toachieve a new perspective on historic events. This class will be groundedprimarily in the historical geography of North America, the Caribbean,and Mexico, and will also consider the general topics of history of place,change over time, the nature and uses of maps, and spatial analysis.HI 0303 What If? Alternate History and the HistoricalImagination3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.What if the American Revolution had failed? What if the South hadwon the Civil War? What if Hitler had never been born? This seminarinvestigates why these and other counterfactual questions haveincreasingly been posed in works of Western popular culture in the lastgeneration. In exploring the recent emergence of counterfactual historyas a cultural phenomenon, we examine a wide range of speculativenovels, ﬁlms, television shows, comic books, plays, and historical essaysin comparative analytical fashion. In the process, we attempt to arrive atgeneral conclusions about how counterfactual narratives help us betterunderstand the roles of causality and morality in history, as well as thebroader workings of collective memory.HI 0304 The Holocaust in History and Memory3 CreditsAttributes: GMEL German Major or Minor Course, GMEN German CourseTaught in English, H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research Paper, JST Judaic Studies Minor, PJST Peace andJustice StudiesPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The Holocaust demands, yet stubbornly resists, historical understanding.This course addresses the Nazis' genocidal assault upon EuropeanJewry and others by examining a wide range of factors that contributedto it. The course explores the roots of modern German anti-Semitism,the origins of Nazism, the establishment of the Nazi dictatorship, thesharpening of anti-Jewish measures during the Third Reich, and theescalation of persecution following the outbreak of World War II thatculminated in the so-called Final Solution. Students consider the legacyof the Holocaust after 1945 by examining the postwar struggle topreserve its lessons in memory, the difﬁculty in ﬁnding adequate culturalmeans of representing its extreme dimensions, and the challenge ofunderstanding the lessons that the event left for the postwar world.HI 0313 Godless: Atheism and Skeptical Thought in the West3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The history of atheism -- or whether atheism even has a history -- isdifﬁcult to establish. Scholars have used a narrow deﬁnition of the termatheism to suggest its origins in the 18th century, or a broad deﬁnition totrace its antecedents back to classical antiquity. This course considersatheism within the tradition of skepticism, and leaves open for classroomdebate the question of whether the thinkers studied -- from Epicurus toIngersoll, Diderot to Dawkins -- represent a coherent tradition or merely acollection of radical challenges, each tied to its own time and place.
HI 0315 Ireland Since the Famine3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course is an in-depth examination of political, social, religious, andeconomic developments in Ireland from 1850 to the present day. Up to1921 the focus is on the entire island including Ulster. After 1921 thefocus turns to the Irish Free State and later Republic (Eire), althoughdevelopments in Northern Ireland are studied as they compare with thehistory of the southern republic and as they bear upon relations with it.Students examine the interaction of politics with religious and ethnicdivisions, international relations, economic conditions, and culturalpatterns, including education and social mores.HI 0316 French Revolution and Napoleon3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course considers the causes of the Revolution, the move frommoderate to radical change, the dynamics of the Terror, the roots ofcounterrevolution, and the reaction that led to military dictatorship. It alsoanalyzes Napoleon's career, the basis of his empire and its relationship tothe satellite kingdoms, and the effects of French hegemony upon Europe.HI 0323 England: Reformation to Revolution3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines the changes in church, state, and society thattook place in the British Isles from the reign of Henry VIII to the GloriousRevolution of 1688. These centuries saw the uniﬁcation of England,Ireland, and Scotland under a single government, the development of thatgovernment from feudal kingship into Parliamentary-based bureaucracy,and the shattering of medieval Catholicism into a variety of differentchurches and doctrines. The course also examines the structure of Tudor-Stuart society and the cultural changes resulting from the Renaissanceand the Scientiﬁc Revolution.HI 0324 Ancient Greece, Rome, and Africa3 CreditsPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course examines the interaction between Greco-Roman civilizationand ancient African civilizations, in the period from the sixth centuryBC to the sixth century AD. Focus is on: initial contacts betweenmainland Greece and Pharaonic Egypt; the period of Greek rule in Egyptand subsequent Greek expansion in Sudan and the Red Sea; initialcontacts between Republican Rome and North Africa, and subsequentRomanization in that region; the period of Roman imperial rule in Egyptand subsequent Roman expansion in Sudan and the Red Sea; and theByzantine diplomatic interaction with and role in Christianization of Nubiaand Axumite Ethiopia.HI 0325 Athenian Democracy and Empire3 CreditsAttributes: H_BF History Before 1750, H_EU European HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This history seminar provides an in-depth exploration of classicalAthens at the height of its power in the ﬁfth century BC. Its focus ison close reading of the primary sources describing the rise and fall ofAthens in this period. It places particular emphasis on the parallel rise ofAthenian democracy at home and the Athenian empire overseas. It placessecondary emphasis on the nature of Athenian intellectual discourse inthis period. A ﬁnal research project will engage modern scholarly debateson the nature of ﬁfth-century Athens.HI 0331 American Revolution and the New Nation3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_RE History: Research Paper,H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.An examination of the coming of the American Revolution and thetransition from colonial to national status, this course discusses themilitary struggle itself and provides an assessment of the political, social,and economic effects of the Revolution. Topics include the Confederationperiod, the forming of the 1787 Constitution, and the Federalist era.Figures such as John Adams, Tom Paine, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison,and Washington receive special attention.HI 0335 Civil War and Reconstruction3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, H_AF History After 1750,H_RE History: Research Paper, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The principal goal of this seminar will be to familiarize students withsome of the most important aspects of the Civil War and Reconstructionperiod in the United States, including the close examination of someof the more important historiographical debates. Topics include:sectionalism, antebellum political parties, slavery, abolition, Civil Warpolitics, Presidential and Congressional Reconstruction, and Redemption.Students will use primary and secondary resources to produce asigniﬁcant research paper.HI 0337 Race, Violence, and Punishment in the United States,1865-19763 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, H_AF History After 1750,H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Beginning with Black Reconstruction in the South and ending with theSupreme Court's temporary ban on capital punishment in Furman v.Georgia (1972), this intensive reading, writing, and research seminarexplores the history of lynching, capital punishment, and other formsof racial violence in the United States. Using primary sources, it chartsthe spread of extra-legal violence in the aftermath of the American CivilWar to understand the social, economic, and political forces that fueledsuch violence. It explores the complex relationship between lynchingand capital punishment through the eyes of contemporaries as wellas through the research of scholars. Students will also engage in asemester-long project to research, record and document instances oflynching, extra-legal violence, and capital punishment as part of a ﬁnalresearch paper.HI 0338 The Long Black Freedom Struggle3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, H_AF History After 1750,H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This seminar explores the history of the varied local, national andinternational protest movements that contributed to what historianHassan Jeffries has called the long "Black Freedom Struggle." Whilerecognizing the boundaries of time and space, it explores connectionsbetween various efforts by African Americans to win freedom andequality in the late 19th century with protest movements of the 20thCentury. The course not only examines key ﬁgures, major organizations,and ideologies of various protest organizations but also uncovers thesocial, political, and economic issues that mobilized African Americansand their allies in the ﬁght against American Apartheid.
HI 0346 Saints, Sinners, and Sisters: Women and Religion in AmericanHistory3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_RE History: Research Paper,H_US U.S. History, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderFocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Why have women comprised the majority of American religious groups?What sorts of gender structures are central to religious groups inAmerica? How have women's relationships to religious institutionschanged over time? This course spans from the colonial era to thetwentieth century; this course will focus on key periods in the formationof American women's relationship to religious ideas and institutions.Topics include: Native American women and colonialism; Puritan Women,Quakerism, Witchcraft Accusations, Evangelicalism American CatholicLife, Black Churches, Social Movements, Spiritualism, the MormonChurch, Jewish women in America, Fundamentalism, Muslim Women,Modern Witchcraft, Goddess Movements, and Buddhism.HI 0349 The 1930s in America3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_RE History: Research Paper, H_USU.S. History, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This research seminar on the Great Depression and New Deal will useprimary and secondary sources to focus on key events and differenthistorical interpretations of the United States during this decade. Theeconomic crisis deﬁned the decade and propelled political, economic,social, and cultural changes. This era has immense relevance to today'spolitical debates -- the federal government's role in regulating the freemarket; the weakness of the labor movement; unemployment and thepersistence of poverty; the increasing wealth gap; the increasing racialedge in these issues. All have their origins in the policies ﬁrst forgedduring the New Deal.HI 0356 History of the Cold War3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research Paper, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This intensive reading, writing, and discussion seminar focuses on theorigins, deepening, and decline of the Cold War between the United Statesand the Soviet Union from 1917 to 1991, covering such issues as Lenin-Wilson ideological antagonism, the shift from Grand Alliance to ColdWar, the arms race, the rise and fall of detente, and the collapse of theCold War order in Europe and the Soviet Union from 1989 to 1991. Thecourse attempts to approach the topic by understanding both sidesof the conflict, studying decisions, policies, and actions in a bilateralfashion.HI 0366 Gender, Culture, and Representation: Women in China and Japan,1600 to Present3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, H_REHistory: Research Paper, WDIV World Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Are Chinese and Japanese women mere victims of a patriarchal society?Do socialist revolution and industrial modernization liberate women? Thisseminar examines those questions by studying the historical changesand continuities in the experience of women in China and Japan fromapproximately the 17th century to the present. The construction andrepresentation of gender relations in China and Japan represent complexprocesses with many changes. Using verbal and visual texts, this courseconsiders women's lives and their struggles to represent themselves inboth societies as well as the historiography on those subjects.HI 0367 East Asia in 20th-Century American Wars3 CreditsAttributes: ASHI American Studies: History, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, H_REHistory: Research Paper, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.During the 20th century the United States fought three wars in EastAsia: the Paciﬁc War, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. How did theEast Asians perceive and react to the wars? How did the wars affectpeople's lives and societies in East Asia? How did the wars affect postwarrelations between the United States and East Asia? Did race, culture, andethnicity play signiﬁcant roles in these wars? This course examines thosequestions by studying East Asia in the three American wars as an oraland social history. The course focuses on the human dimensions of thewars as experienced by those East Asians who fought and lived throughthem.HI 0368 Ideas in Action: Decolonization in World History3 CreditsPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This seminar explores the intellectual history of "decolonization," themultifaceted process marked by the collapse of longstanding Europeanempires and the emergence of independent nation-states in Africa, Asia,and the Caribbean in the mid-twentieth century. The central assumptionof intellectual history is that ideas are key drivers of historical change.Conventional intellectual history courses engage with a narrow canonof European thinkers. This course approaches key ﬁgures from thecolonial and postcolonial world, such as Gandhi and Fanon, as importantideological innovators integral to world history. Our main concern will bethe intellectual ferment inaugurated as colonized peoples sought ﬁrst tomake sense of colonialism and then debated the meaning of, and meansof achieving, freedom and liberation.HI 0371 Arab-Israeli Conflict3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The course traces the Arab-Israeli conflict from the end of the 19thcentury until the present, emphasizing the political and socioeconomictransformation of Palestine as Zionists and Palestinian Arabs struggledfor political sovereignty in the same land. Topics include Anti-Semitismand the Birth of Zionism; the British Mandate; the creation of Israel; therelationship between Israel and the Arab states; the Israeli occupation ofthe West Bank and Gaza; Palestinian resistance; Israel's war in Lebanon;diaspora politics; representations of the conflict in ﬁlm and pop culture;and prospects for the future.HI 0372 Terrorism in History3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_NW Non-Western History, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This course examines terrorism as it has been perpetrated by individuals,political-military groups, and states of varying political ideologies. Topicsinclude political violence in antiquity and medieval times; the FrenchRevolution; terrorism, anarchism, and Marxism; terrorism and nationalliberation; and terrorism and religion.
HI 0373 History of North Africa Since 17003 CreditsAttributes: H_NW Non-Western History, H_RE History: Research Paper,WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116; one 200-level historycourse or CL 0115 or CL 0116.The region historically known as the Barbary Coast or North Africa todaycomprises ﬁve states: Mauritania /Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria,Tunisia, and Libya. Bordered by the Mediterranean Sea on the northand the Sahara desert on the south, this region lay at the crossroads ofEuropean, African, and Middle Eastern civilizations. The course exploresthe countries' individual histories and inter-related regional topics suchas piracy, Christian captivity narratives, the trans-Saharan slave trade,colonialism, national liberation and decolonization. Students investigateviolence, power, identity, foreign domination, and the challenges thesepose for the writing of history.HI 0383 Food, Consumption, and Commodities in Latin America, 1500 tothe Present: From Chocolate to Cocaine3 CreditsAttributes: H_NW Non-Western History, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIVWorld DiversityPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This upper level research seminar examines food and commoditiesas a critical part of the social and cultural history of Latin America.Through historical texts, cookbooks, literature, ﬁlm, and food tastings,we will explore the history of food production, commodiﬁcation, andconsumption in Latin America, while paying close attention to theways that cuisine has shaped cultural identity, social difference, andnationalisms over time.HI 0385 Comparative Russian Revolutions3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_REHistory: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.An intensive reading, writing and discussion seminar studying in somedepth the background, origins, development, and outcomes of twoRussian revolutionary periods of the 20th century: the interrelatedupheavals of 1905 to 1917, resulting in the overthrow of the tsaristregime and its replacement by the Bolsheviks; and the reform, collapse,and transformation of the Communist government of the Soviet Unionfrom Mikhail Gorbachev to the present. In the process of two in-depthexaminations, the course explores contrasts among the social, economic,political, and cultural forces at work in the two revolutionary periods.HI 0391 The Meanings of History3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_EU European History, H_NW Non-Western History, H_US U.S. HistoryPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.This upper-division seminar for juniors and seniors analyzes the ideas ofseminal Western and non-Western thinkers; historians and philosopherswho have had a profound influence on historical understanding andthe practice of historians. Topics include the following questions: Whatis history? To what extent has the understanding of history changedin various times, places, and cultures? Are "scientiﬁc" history and thediscovery of objective truth possible? Do stable civilizational identitiesexist and what value do such concepts have for historical understanding?The course examines the contemporary political, social, and culturalrelevance of these and comparable questions through intensive readings,discussions, and analytical papers.HI 0395 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116; junior or senior standing.Majors work a minimum of eight hours per week during the semester atthe Fairﬁeld Museum and History Center, the Bridgeport Public LibraryHistorical Collections, or a similar institution. An intern's work at thesesites may include researching and mounting an exhibit, catalogingmanuscript and artifacts collections, or organizing and conductinghistorical walking tours. Training in required skills is provided at the site.Under the supervision of a history department faculty member, internswrite a research paper based on the work of the internship. Enrollmentonly by permission of the department Internship Coordinator.HI 0397 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisites: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116; one 200-level historycourse or CL 0115 or CL 0116; junior or senior standing.This course offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant historicalproblem or topic, conducted in a seminar format. The professor teachingthe course chooses the topic.HI 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: H_RE History: Research PaperPrerequisite: HI 0010 or CL 0115 or CL 0116.Open to juniors and seniors only, this course provides an opportunity foradvanced students to develop critical reading skills and writing abilityin a tutorial arrangement with a chosen professor. Normally, the courseresults in a serious paper of publishable quality in student-centeredjournals (15 to 20 pages). Students arrange for independent study duringregistration period of the semester prior to the one in which they wishto take the course by applying to a professor under whose directionthey wish to study. All independent study must have the concurrence ofthe department chairperson. Students may take only two independentstudies.Honors (HR)HR 0100 Ideas That Shaped the West4 CreditsThis team-taught lecture/seminar course examines selected ideas orthemes from Western intellectual history, focusing on developments inphilosophy, society, science, and the arts. The ideas selected vary fromcourse section to course section.HR 0101 Minds and Bodies4 CreditsThis team-taught lecture/seminar course examines constructions ofthe human person, and the social reflections of these constructions, inWestern culture. The ideas selected vary from course section to coursesection.HR 0198 Special Topics3 or 4 CreditsThis course offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant topic orquestion, conducted in a seminar format. The professor(s) teaching thecourse choose(s) the topic. This course is generally limited to freshmen,with exceptions made as needed.HR 0200 Challenges to the Western Tradition3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course examines alternatives to the conﬁguration of knowledge,art, power, and justice in the classical, majority culture of the West byconsidering critical voices traditionally marginalized in that culture.HR 0201 Non-Western Culture3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThis course examines alternatives to the conﬁguration of knowledge,art, power, and justice in the classical, majority culture of the West byinvestigating the history, worldview, and assumptions of a non-Westernculture.
HR 0202 Honors Seminar3 CreditsThis seminar, offered in one of the traditional disciplines, seeks tocultivate the skills of critical thinking, cogent argumentation, andeffective writing, all by attending to a particular subject matter. Honorsstudents earn six credits in HR 0202 by completing one version of theseminar in their second year of honors coursework and another versionof the seminar in their third year of honors coursework. A completetitle, reflecting the seminar's particular subject matter, appears on thestudent's transcript. Students may not enroll in any section of HR 0202offered in a discipline in which they major or minor.HR 0298 Special Topics3 CreditsPrerequisite: HR 0100.This course offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant topic orquestion, conducted in a seminar format. The professor(s) teachingthe course choose(s) the topic. This course is generally limited tosophomores, with exceptions made as needed.HR 0300 Interdisciplinary Inquiry3 CreditsThis team-taught course stresses the value of interdisciplinaryapproaches to scholarly inquiry by investigating a wide-ranging themefrom the perspective of at least two disciplines. Possible themes treatedin a given year are progress and its critics, genius and creativity, and thecity in the American imagination.HR 0398 Special Topics3 CreditsPrerequisite: HR 0200 or HR 0201.This course offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant topic orquestion, conducted in a seminar format. The professor(s) teaching thecourse choose(s) the topic. This course is generally limited to juniors,with exceptions made as needed.Humanitarian Action (HA)HA 0298 Humanitarian Action Internship3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method CourseStudents gain ﬁrst-hand experience through placement with a relevantinternational organization, non-proﬁt, media and business, or governmentagency focused on humanitarian crises and disaster response.Typically, an internship requires 10 to 15 hours per week on site. Otherrequirements include an e-portfolio containing reflections about readings,meetings with internship coordinator and peers and a ﬁnal reflectionpaper. An on-site supervisor and Humanitarian Action professor evaluatestudent work. Open to juniors and seniors only, by permission of theminor director. Requires an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher.HA 0300 Humanitarian Action Capstone3 CreditsPrerequisites: AE 0272 or HI 0270 or PO 0129; completion of threeHumanitarian Action electives; junior or senior standing.This capstone course is a culminating experience for students minoringin Humanitarian Action. It provides students with the opportunity toengage with enduring questions that they have encountered throughouttheir coursework. Through a process of reflection and discernmentfacilitated during each class meeting, students will identify a researchtopic for a major paper that integrates the student's coursework,internship and/or extra-curricular experiences in the minor.Humanities (HU)HU 0201 Technical Skills for Liberal Arts Majors3 CreditsStudents today will need skills in a variety of computer programs andsoftware applications. This course is designed for those in the liberalarts (humanities and social or behavioral sciences) who will need thesetechnical skills for their future workplace. Speciﬁc skill sets includesoftware for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation, conferencing,web page coding, and web page design; other software may be included.The course serves those students going into business, publishing, non-proﬁt careers and a variety of other enterprises for which the liberalarts training must be augmented with speciﬁc cyber-related technicalcompetence. Open to students with majors in the humanities or social/behavioral sciences only.HU 0301 Humanities Institute Seminar3 CreditsThe Humanities Seminar is a research-oriented mentorship program,focused on the needs of excellent undergraduate humanities majorsor minors, who are contemplating graduate work in the humanitiesor other humanities-oriented research careers. The seminar is opento students who have become Student Fellows by application to theHumanities Institute. The seminar course, comprised of both cohortand mentoring experiences, will normally occur in the spring semesterunder the guidance of the faculty mentor. Substantial independent workis expected of Student Fellows and the anticipated outcome will be alengthy research paper or equivalent project. Enrollment by permissiononly.Information Systems (IS)IS 0100 Introduction to Information Systems3 CreditsThis course helps students understand the role of Information Systemsin the contemporary business environment. It introduces them to theuse of information systems concepts and techniques in solving a widerange of business problems. Working in small teams, students develop,analyze, and present solutions to a business problem using informationtechnology.IS 0135 Fundamentals of Web Design3 CreditsStudents learn the theory and practice of front-end web design.Theoretical content will primarily focus on website design, with aheavy emphasis on developing sites that conform to standards and areresponsive to the needs of practical applications and mobile devices.Hands-on work will help develop technical skills, such as HTML, CSS,XML, and other web client technologies. Students will learn to usea professional-quality toolset and to follow generally accepted bestpractices. The course includes weekly web-programming assignmentsand a semester project.IS 0210 Fundamentals of Business Analytics3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business ElectivePrerequisite: Junior or senior standing; EC 0278 or MA 0017 or MA 0217or PY 0201 or SO 0221.This course introduces fundamental knowledge and essential skillsin business analytics, including modeling and analyzing data usingspreadsheet software, such as Excel and its add-ons, as well as toolsfor optimization, descriptive analytics, visualizing and exploring data,predictive modeling, regression analysis, time series analysis, portfoliodecisions, risk management, and simulation. Business models relevantto ﬁnance, accounting, marketing, and operations management are setup and solved, with managerial interpretations and "what if" analyses toprovide further insight into real business problems and solutions.
IS 0240 Systems Analysis and Logical Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0100.This course focuses on the introduction of new systems and technologyinto the ﬁrm. Students learn to analyze and design information systemsto meet speciﬁc business needs. Coverage includes structured andobject-oriented methodologies, with an emphasis on current bestpractice. CASE tools employing the Uniﬁed Modeling Language areused as appropriate. As part of a semester project, students analyzerequirements for an information system of moderate size and complexity,and then architect and evaluate alternative systems that meet therequirements. The semester projects are "juried" by a team of experiencedprofessionals from the ﬁeld.IS 0260 Database Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0100.This course introduces the concepts of data modeling, as they apply inthe business world, within the context of a client/server environment.Topics include relational databases, object-oriented databases, andInternet databases, along with the Structured Query Language that isused to create and manipulate databases. Students are also introducedto the architecture of Data Warehouses. Formerly IS 0340.IS 0310 E-Business Applications3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0100.This course examines e-business applications such as knowledgemanagement, enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationshipmanagement (CRM), and mobile applications in inter-organizational,national, and global business environments. Students explore newe-business applications, the economics of e-business, value chainsand value networks, related legal and ethical issues, informationprivacy and security, disaster planning and recovery, and the impactof emerging e-business and mobile applications. The course includesa brief introduction to technical architecture, technology, solutions,and ﬁnancing required for effective e-business applications. Studentsinvestigate emerging opportunities, challenges, and trends throughinteractive team exercises, case studies, and individual research projectsand presentations.IS 0315 Data Mining and Applications3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business ElectivePrerequisite: IS 0210.This course provides the students with an understanding of the practicesof data mining, with a special focus on business analytics. To assure thepractical relevance of this course, this course focuses on the applicationsof techniques and tools that help realize data mining in terms of businessanalytics and actionable intelligence. The pillar of this course is laidout along with the well-accepted data mining process: starting withdata collection techniques, such as collecting/extracting web/text/social media data from heterogeneous resources; following with thediscussions toward data preparation techniques (quality and relevancecontrol). Applications of these techniques and tools on differentsubareas, such as web/text/social media analytics are covered.IS 0320 Systems Design and Implementation3 CreditsPrerequisites: IS 0260, IS 0240; one programming course.Students work in collaborating teams to design and build a networkedinformation system. Emphasis is placed on development as an ongoingiterative and incremental process. Standard CASE tools, design patterns,and business practices are used to ensure proper communication andintegration across development teams.IS 0350 International Information Systems3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method Course, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: IS 0100.This course investigates information technologies in a variety ofinternational business environments. The course content includesnational infrastructures and discrete information cultures in advancedand developing economies. The social, economic, and political impactsof information technologies outside the United States are examined, withan emphasis on appropriate systems design and control. The coursecovers contemporary issues such as privacy, security, the protection ofintellectual property, and national information policies extensively.IS 0391 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.IS 0392 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.IS 0393 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.IS 0394 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take up to two semesters of a department-approvedinternship. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.IS 0395 Systems Project3 CreditsPrerequisites: IS 0240; Senior status.This course applies skills that have been learned in the informationsystems major and the business core. These skills span the areas ofproject management, systems analysis, systems design, businesscommunication, organizational behavior, software development,operations management, and business processes. Students demonstratetheir knowledge by engaging in a student-deﬁned project that providesa business solution for a client. The primary deliverables for the courseare a system or a set of alternatives to solve the business problem, alongwith all related documentation.IS 0397 Seminar in Information Systems3 or 6 CreditsThis special program involving independent study and research is alsointended for students accepted in an approved internship. This course,administered by the Ofﬁce of the Dean, requires a formal applicationby the student to the faculty project advisor and the department chair.The course does not count toward fulﬁlling the requirements for theinformation systems major, but does count toward meeting Universitycredit requirements. Open only to senior Information Systems majors.Enrollment by permission only.IS 0398 Seminar in Information Systems3 or 6 CreditsThis special program involving independent study and research is alsointended for students accepted in an approved internship. This course,administered by the Ofﬁce of the Dean, requires a formal applicationby the student to the faculty project advisor and the department chair.The course does not count toward fulﬁlling the requirements for theinformation systems major, but does count toward meeting Universitycredit requirements. Open only to senior Information Systems majors.Enrollment by permission only.
IS 0399 Independent Study3 CreditsStudents pursue topics of special interest through independent study,research, and/or completion of an information systems project under thesupervision of a full-time faculty member. The department chair and deanmust approve the work. The student and a faculty project advisor whoagrees to conduct the work according to a mutually agreeable schedulemust complete an application form. Once the form is completed andsubmitted to the registrar, the student may register for the course, whichis taught during the fall and spring semesters. If any work is expectedto occur at any time other than the semester registered, students mustobtain the approval of the faculty project advisor and the departmentchair prior to commencing of any work. Normally, students completedat least two advanced information systems courses before taking thiscourse.IS 0500 Information Systems and Database Management3 CreditsThis course introduces the basic concepts and tools relevant toinformation systems and database management, and their enablingroles in business strategies and operations. Case studies are used tofacilitate discussions of practical applications and issues involvingstrategic alignments of organizations, resource allocation, integration,planning, and analysis of cost, beneﬁt and performance in light of thebig data challenges. Speciﬁc emphases involve database design andimplementation and emerging strategies and technologies such asbusiness intelligence, big data management, web security, and onlinebusiness analytics.IS 0501 International Information Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0500.This course examines information technology environments around theworld, and attendant challenges to business strategy and informationsystems design. The course identiﬁes geographic and institutionalvariables that create borders in the global Internet economy: materialinfrastructures, socio-economic elements, and political-legal systems.The course emphasizes national and regional strategies, emergenttechnologies, hybrid systems, and equity issues.IS 0505 Python for Business Analytics3 CreditsIn this course, we introduce Python as a language and tool for collecting,preprocessing, and visualizing data for business analytics. since Pythonis one of the most popular programming languages, along with R, indata mining and business analytics, its fundamental programming logicand knowledge is essential for students to apply in data mining andto succeed in the job market. Speciﬁcally, this course focuses on thedata-engineering phase, which includes collecting, preprocessing, andvisualizing data, with respect to applications in business modeling,optimization, and statistical analysis. In addition, a number of miniprojects will be used as vehicles to cover the main applications of dataanalytics, including recommender systems, text analytics, and webanalytics.IS 0510 Databases for Business Analytics3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0505.This course introduces databases and data management in three parts.The ﬁrst part covers basic database fundamentals. The second partis a hands-on introduction to Structured Query Language (SQL) fordeﬁning, manipulating, accessing, and managing data, accompanied bythe basics of data modeling and normalization needed to ensure dataintegrity. The course concludes with a comprehensive database projectthat gives each student the opportunity to integrate and apply the newknowledge and skills learned from this class. Advanced topics such asdistributed database systems, data services, and NoSQL databases arealso discussed.IS 0520 Project Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0500 or OM 0400.This course explores the process and practice of project management.Topics to be covered include project lifecycle and organizations,teambuilding and productivity, task scheduling and resource allocation,and progress tracking and control. Cases will be used to consider theimplications for change management, consulting, IT implementation, andother related disciplines. Small team projects and experiential exerciseswill also be used to provide an active learning environment. This course isdesigned to count toward professional project management certiﬁcation.IS 0540 Data Mining and Business Intelligence3 CreditsPrerequisites: IS 0510, OM 0500, QA 0500.This course will change the way you think about data and its role inbusiness. Businesses, governments, and individuals create massivecollections of data as a byproduct of their activity. Increasingly, managersrely on intelligent technology to systematically analyze data to improvetheir decision-making. In many cases, automating analytical anddecision-making processes is necessary because of the large volume ofdata and the speed with which new data are generated. In this course,we will examine how data analysis technologies can be used to improvemanagerial decision making. We will study the fundamental principlesand techniques of data mining through real-world examples and casesto place data mining techniques in context, to develop data-analyticthinking, and to illustrate that proper application of these techniques isas much an art as it is a science. In addition, we will work "hands-on" withcontemporary data mining software.IS 0550 Business Analytics and Big Data Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0540.This course will survey state-of-the-art topics in Big Data, looking atdata collection (via smartphones, sensors, the Web), data storageand processing (scalable relational databases, Hadoop, Spark, etc.),extracting structured data from unstructured databases, systemsissues (exploiting multicore, security), analytics (machine learning, datacompression, efﬁcient algorithms), data visualization, and a range ofapplications. Each of these ﬁve modules will introduce broad concepts aswell as provide the most recent developments in the area.IS 0585 Contemporary Topics in Information Systems and OperationsManagement3 CreditsPrerequisite: IS 0500.This course draws from current literature and practice on informationsystems and/or operations management. The topics change fromsemester to semester, depending on student and faculty interest andmay include: project management, e-business, management science withspreadsheets, e-procurement, executive information systems, ethics, andother socio-economic factors in the use of information technology.IS 0585B Contemporary Topics: Advanced Data MiningApplications3 CreditsIS 0598 Independent Study in Information Systems and OperationsManagement3 CreditsThis course provides an opportunity for students to complete a projector perform research under the direction of an Information Systems andOperations Management (ISOM) faculty member who has expertise in thetopic being investigated. Students are expected to complete a signiﬁcantproject or research paper as the primary requirement of this course.Enrollment by permission of the ISOM Department Chair only.
Interdisciplinary (ID)ID 0153 Healthcare in Cuba4 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, WDIVWorld DiversityThis interdisciplinary course examines Cuba's history, internationalrelations, political structure, culture, and economy. The theme ofhealthcare permeates all course components. A one-week immersionin Cuba provides a cultural exchange opportunity from which you'll gainperspectives on non-Western ways of life. Activities in Cuba include dailylectures by Cuban scholars and policy makers on various health-relatedtopics (universal healthcare, health tourism, medical internationalism,health innovations, reproductive health, etc.) and related site visits(hospital, primary health clinic, etc.) in addition to cultural events andsites. Students will develop an independent research project thatculminates in a ﬁnal presentation and paper.Interior Design (IN)Note: Interior Design courses are open only to Interior Design Certiﬁcatestudents. They are not open to matriculated undergraduate students.IN 0107 Color Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.Students develop proﬁciency in discerning basic color differencesand visualizing color application. Students learn color mixing andidentiﬁcation, color scheme planning, pattern and scale.IN 0109 Basic Computer-Aided Design (CAD)3 CreditsAn introduction to computer aided drafting and design concepts,methods, and skills used in Interior Design. Students learn to use thebasic commands of AutoCAD software to produce architectural andinterior drawings including floor-plans, elevations, sections, and details.Students taking this course should note that the class will be taughtusing the Windows PC operating system. Students should bring their ownlaptop with AutoCAD LT software installed to each class.IN 0110 Interior Design I3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.Students develop the judgment and skill needed to conceive andexecute a successful residential interior design project. Through weeklydesign problems, students integrate aesthetics and function. Studentsexperience the issues and difﬁculties a professional must face, learningthe appropriate steps from client interview to presenting accurate scaledrawings in plan and elevation.IN 0111 Textiles for Interiors3 CreditsA survey of textile manufacture from ﬁber to ﬁnished fabric withemphasis on the textile's attributes for determining quality and usage.The student is introduced to construction methods, dyeing, printing, andﬁnishing processed with discussion of various applications.IN 0113 History of Furniture I3 CreditsThis course examines the major styles of furniture from Egyptian throughthe Renaissance and Baroque (15th-17th centuries) to the Rococo andNeoclassic periods (early 19th century). Examples will be drawn mainlyfrom Italy, France, England, and Germany, with emphasis on masteringthe speciﬁc features of each style and on understanding the ideas thatinfluenced the furnishings in each era.IN 0114 History of Furniture II3 CreditsThis course examines American furniture from 1650-1830 and itsrelationship to English prototypes. The course covers Victorian furniturestyles through contemporary trends in both the U.S. and in Europe.Emphasis is on learning the characteristics of each period as well as adiscussion of the materials culture of the time.IN 0117 History of Architecture and Interior Design3 CreditsA survey of architecture and interiors from antiquity to the present, andthe cultural factors affecting them. Among the civilizations, periods,and styles to be included are Egypt, Greece, Rome, the Middle Ages, theRenaissance, Baroque, Rococo, and the Modern.IN 0119 Drawing and Presentation3 CreditsThis course is an introduction to drafting techniques for the preparationof architectural interior drawings emphasizing drafting and detailingroom plans, elevations and sections. Course covers drafting forarchitectural purposes, drawing for client presentation, techniques ofpresentation, and board mounting. A ﬁnal project with ﬁnished floorplans, elevations, and sample boards is required.IN 0121 Sustainable Design2 CreditsSimplifying the complex world of sustainable design and how it relates toglobal environmental issues, climate change, and health. Course topicsinclude: an overview of the big picture of Sustainability, Case Studies, theLEED Rating System - Best Practice Systems and the Integrative DesignTeam, the impact of design and construction practices and speciﬁcationof non-toxic materials on the health of occupants and the environment,guest speakers, and ﬁeld trips for "green resources."IN 0122 Rendering3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.A rendered drawing relies on tone as the basis for the perception of form.Using the media of pencil, colored pencil, pen and ink, markers, watercolorand their various combinations, students learn to achieve a higher degreeof professionalism in interior design presentations and perspectivedrawings.IN 0209 3-D Architectural Computer-Aided Design (CAD)3 CreditsBuilding on knowledge gained in Basic CAD, students learn to usethree-dimensional software to create architectural floor plans, threedimensional walls and object display control. Creating structures and 3-D walkthroughs will also be covered. Note: This course is available bytransfer credit only.IN 0211 Interior Design II3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0110.Building on the design fundamentals of Interior Design I, studentscontinue to practice space planning, and learn to prepare and deliverpersuasive presentations. Class covers tools designers have to workwith, including color, special ﬁnishes, building materials, furnishings,fabrics, window treatments, floor coverings, and accessories, with specialemphasis on kitchen and bath design. Creativity is fostered through aseries of residential design problems reinforcing the logical nature of thedesign process.IN 0212 Interior Design III3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0211.Students document, by blueprint and/or photos, an existing residentialspace, including complete floor plans, furniture detailing prospectivedrawing of one space, lighting plans, and detailed presentation boards,showing all fabrics, furniture, wall coverings and rugs obtained solelyfrom New York showrooms.
IN 0213 Interior Design IV3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0212.Through a series of lectures, hands-on developmental planning andindividual guidance, students deal with different topics including: majorresidential/small commercial space planning and remodeling, kitchen andbath design with plumbing and HVAC, architectural and furniture designwith detailing and construction drawings, estimating and application ofdesign materials including flooring, wall-covering, window treatments andupholstery. This knowledge will be applied to the renovation of an existingNew York City brownstone.IN 0214 Commercial Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0213.Students learn the importance of the surrounding environment in aworking situation and professional techniques for planning and executingbusiness interiors. Readings, lectures, project organization, and studioassignments stress the principles of good design and the practical skillsneeded to function professionally.IN 0215 Lighting for Interiors3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.An introduction to various types of lighting equipment and theircharacteristics. Students learn how to accurately interpret professionallighting catalogues, to calculate appropriate light levels and to apply thisknowledge to a professional lighting plan.IN 0216 Kitchen and Bath Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.This specialty course addresses the speciﬁc principals of kitchen andbath design with emphasis on function, style, health and safety. Attentionwill be paid to the industry guidelines as established by the NationalKitchen and Bath Association. There will be segments on products andmaterials, lighting and plumbing. Design and drafting principals will bea major emphasis of this overview course and will touch on universaldesign. There will be an opportunity to design an actual case study of akitchen/bathroom. This introductory course will expose students to theknowledge and professionalism required to be a successful kitchen andbath designer.IN 0218 Interior Design V3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0213.Students begin to deal with the more technical aspects of contractdesign, commercial design and construction, including: large-scale space-planning, structural coordination, barrier-free design, building codes/regulations and contract documents. This is an online course.IN 0219 Interior Design VI3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0218.Through lecture, reading and a series of design problems, students willcontinue to increase their skill in the application of the many aspects ofcontract design. The semester will culminate in the execution of a large-scale commercial space planning project.IN 0220 Perspective Techniques3 CreditsPrerequisite: IN 0119.Existing design projects are turned into three-dimensional interiorperspectives, which are invaluable in communicating ideas to the client.Completed drawings will become part of the student portfolio.IN 0221 Business of Interior Design1 CreditA series of six sessions, each conducted by a different practicing interiordesigner who will share his or her experiences in developing a businessand dealing with the many practical issues related to the interior designprofession.International Studies (IL)IL 0050 People, Places, and Global Issues3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, PJST Peace and Justice Studies,WDIV World DiversityThis course introduces students to some of the fundamental conceptsof International Studies. Major world regions and selected countrieswithin them are discussed with respect to the people, and their physical,demographic, cultural, political, and economic characteristics. Severalconcepts and global issues are explored, among which the physicalenvironment, conflict, inequality, global interconnectedness, and themovement of goods and people across borders are central. This coursewill emphasize contemporary events, particularly as they relate to thefundamental themes covered.IL 0051 International Relations: Theories and Challenges3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsThis course introduces International Relations (IR) theories to students,providing concepts, frameworks and approaches that will help them makesense of global politics historically and today in a systematic and criticalmanner. The goal of the course is to familiarize students with thesetools and to help them use them to understand and address challengesat a global scale, particularly different manifestations of violence,development and social injustice, including from war to economic, social,gendered, and political marginalization.IL 0052 Culture and Political Economy3 CreditsThis course examines the ways in which global political economicdynamics impact local cultures. Students will begin with classic texts insocial theory, examine how this theory informs contemporary debates,and look to small-scale societies in the Global South for an intimate,ethnographic perspective of our global era.IL 0053 Introduction to Economics3 CreditsThis course introduces the fundamentals of economic analysis fromindividual consumer behavior to the choices ﬁrms make, as well asframing the aggregate economy and indicators that measure globaleconomic activity. It will cover the basics of both micro and macroeconomic study. Supply and demand, market structures, internationaltrade, ﬁscal, and monetary policy are introduced. Students may petitionfor this course to also count toward a major or minor in economics.IL 0150 International Operations of Non-Proﬁts3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, HASM Humanitarian Action MinorSkills/Method Course, WDIV World DiversityThis course introduces students to the environment of internationalnot-for-proﬁt organizations. The course examines the relationshipsbetween non-proﬁts and the private and public sectors. Accountabilityis discussed in terms of short-term ﬁnancial efﬁciencies and long-termprogram quality assessment. Course objectives include understandinginternal and external environments in which non-proﬁts operate; therelationship between non-proﬁts with the public and private sectors;acquiring skills for accounting and ﬁnancial information in the non-proﬁtsector; understanding roles, performance and accountability issues ofnongovernmental organizations in international development assistance;and developing case study analyses.
IL 0151 Gender, War, Peace3 CreditsAttributes: PMIR Politics Major: International Relations, WDIV WorldDiversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course examines the complexities and gendered impact of waron children, family and other social actors, drawing on a wide range oftheories, concepts and case studies on violence, conflict escalation andpeacebuilding. Part I examines the multifaceted forces of globalization,structural violence and gender based violence (GBV) that set upthe gendered dynamics of war. Part II draws from this framework tounderstand the fluid contexts of gender and violence in war, includingsexual violence. It looks at how people try to remain safe from armedconflict and marauding bands of rebels or soldiers, and the difﬁculties ofsorting victim from perpetrator. Part III examines theories of social justicein the aftermath of war, and policies that can lead to improved security,safety, health, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Course requirementsinclude exams and a research paper on the theory and policy implicationsof gender in war and its aftermath.IL 0152 International Human Rights3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context CourseThis course is devoted to an examination of basic human rightsphilosophy, principles, instruments and institutions. It introducesstudents to the origins and development of international humanrights; the need to apply and enforce legal obligations and establishaccountability for human rights violators; and the procedures enforcedby the international community for human rights violation. Students willengage in focused discussions and debates on contemporary issues ofhuman rights, such as Environmental Rights, Women's Rights, RightsAgainst Trafﬁcking, and Economic Rights. The ﬁnal part of the courseincludes a special focus on U.S Foreign Policies on Human Rights,concluding with Guantanamo. As part of the research requirements ofthe course, students will focus on human rights for which they want to beadvocates and/or in which they want to be engaged.IL 0197 United Nations Security Council Crisis Simulation3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, WDIV WorldDiversityThis course gives students a hands-on learning experience in worlddiversity by simulating a United Nations Security Council crisis ininternational peace and security. The objective is to introduce students tothe challenges of global governance in light of the different perspectivesthey encounter representing different constituencies of the UN SecurityCouncil who come from diverse cultural, historical, and geo-politicalregions of the world. A key goal of the course is to bring to lightwhether and how power disparities limit the global South's effectiverepresentation, and the stakes in reform of the Security Council. While thetopic of the simulation will vary, the focus is on a crisis in a non-Westernregion of the world.IL 0260 Historical Perspectives on Contemporary Global Crises3 CreditsAttributes: H_AF History After 1750, H_NW Non-Western History, H_USU.S. History, WDIV World DiversityUsing topical, geographic, and critical approaches, this course examinesthe interaction of the United States and Western Europe with the restof the world in the 20th century, giving considerable attention to non-Western perspectives such as those of Asia, Africa, Latin America,the Arab world, Russia, and Eastern Europe. The course includesan introduction to the history of U.S. foreign relations, internationalorganizations, social change in the developing world, and world systemstheory.IL 0280 Global Leadership for Research and ProjectDevelopment3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method CoursePrerequisite: Junior standing.The course equips students to prepare prestigious international grantsand fellowship projects that will make a difference in the world. Studentsdevelop their own ethical global imagination on transformationalleadership. The course covers a variety of theoretical approaches andmethodologies for research and project development informed byfeminist, gender, cultural competency, power, race, class, ability/disability,and critical pedagogical perspectives. The students choose the grant orfellowship that is the focus of their project, along with the particular topic(puzzle) and research question.IL 0295 Seminar in International Studies3 CreditsThe course examines special topics in international studies. The speciﬁctopic for a given semester is announced at the time of registration. Thecourse may be repeated with permission of the program director.IL 0298 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior or senior standing.Students accept placements with local organizations, governmentagencies, or non-proﬁt organizations in positions with an internationalcomponent. Interns learn to apply knowledge acquired in their courseof study to real-world situations. Completion of the internship requiresregular meetings with the supervising faculty member, submission ofjournal entries, and one paper. Note: Students complete the internship inaddition to the basic requirements for the major or minor. Arrangementsfor summer and international internships are also available. Studentsmust have a GPA of 2.8 or higher.IL 0299 Independent Study1-3 CreditsStudents pursue an independent research project on international issuesunder the supervision of a faculty member. Open to juniors and seniorswith the director's permission.IL 0300 Senior Capstone Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0011, EC 0012, IL 0050, IL 0051, IL 0052.This course requires students to theorize and analyze emerging trends inthe political, socio-cultural, economic, and business dimensions of globalaffairs, and develop the implications in a particular context or setting.Students undertake a major research project as a central activity in thiscourse drawing on the expertise and research methodologies they havedeveloped in International Studies. This course is taken during the senioryear, after students have completed all core courses in internationalstudies.Irish Studies (IRI)IRI 0110 Introduction to the Irish Language I3 CreditsThis course, the ﬁrst in a two-course sequence, offers students anintroductory level study of the Irish Gaelic language. Irish is the oldestsurviving Celtic language, dating to the Roman Empire, and it opens awindow to the Gaelic Order prior to 1690, a span of over 15 centuries.This course sequence teaches students the basics of grammar, syntax,speaking and writing in Irish, as well as some of the historical andcultural contexts within which the Irish language developed and to whichit is deeply tied. The class may be attended online-only as well. Thiscourse does not count for core credit in Modern and Classical Languages.
IRI 0111 Introduction to the Irish Language II3 CreditsPrerequisite: IRI 0110.This course, a continuation of IRI 0110, offers students an introductorylevel study of the Irish Gaelic language. Irish is the oldest survivingCeltic language, dating to the Roman Empire, and it opens a window tothe Gaelic Order prior to 1690, a span of over 15 centuries. This coursesequence teaches students the basics of grammar, syntax, speaking andwriting in Irish, as well as some of the historical and cultural contextswithin which the Irish language developed and to which it is deeply tied.The class may be attended online-only as well. This course does notcount for core credit in Modern and Classical Languages.Italian (IT)IT 0110 Elementary Italian I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Italian or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. The culture of Italy is explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.IT 0111 Elementary Italian II3 CreditsPrerequisite: IT 0110.This course, a continuation of IT 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. The culture of Italy isexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.IT 0210 Intermediate Italian I3 CreditsPrerequisite: IT 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. Italian culture is explored through awide variety of materials including literary texts, press articles, and ﬁlms.Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory online workdetermined by the instructor.IT 0211 Intermediate Italian II3 CreditsAttributes: ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianPrerequisite: IT 0210.This course, a continuation of IT 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. Italian culture is explored through a wide varietyof materials including literary texts, press articles, and ﬁlms. Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.IT 0220 Topics in Language and Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: IT 0211.This course improves proﬁciency in written and oral expression byfocusing on particular topics in Italian language and culture. Studentsdevelop advanced writing and speaking skills while concentrating ongrammar, style, and appropriateness. Weekly compositions, basedprimarily on the genres studied (short story, theater, memoir, essay) allowstudents to identify and correct grammatical mistakes. Students presentspeeches in class and conduct situational dramas such as job interviews,television reporting, courtroom trials, and debates in Italian. Films andvarious cultural artifacts (comic strips, proverbs, songs) familiarizestudents with idiomatic Italian.IT 0222 Made in Italy3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianPrerequisite: IT 0211.Made in Italy, a term that indicates the uniqueness of Italy inabbigliamento (clothing), agroalimentare (food), arredamento (furniture)and automobili (automobiles), dates to the 1980s. This course seeks tofurther our understanding of Italian culture by investigating the reasonsfor the popularity and preeminence of products made in Italy. Designershave ensured Italy's prominence in the world of fashion. Pasta, prosciutto,and olive oil are synonymous with Italy, the birthplace of the Slow Foodmovement. Innovative design, both interior and exterior, is anotherhallmark of Italian excellence. Italy has produced both high performing,luxury cars and more economical modes of transportation. Conducted inItalian.IT 0233 Creative Writing3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianPrerequisite: IT 0211.This course will explore the craft of ﬁction, touching on both its theoryand practice. Students will begin by examining some masters of prosein order to discuss key elements of ﬁction writing (plot, character, pointof view, and style). They will consider the panorama of modern andcontemporary Italian ﬁction, from the novella to the historical novel,coming-of-age ﬁction to the postmodern immigrant narrative. Studentswill develop individual creative projects, which will be shared with theirworkshop classmates and revised in cooperation with the instructor.IT 0240 Language of Food in Italian Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianPrerequisite: IT 0211."Dimmi ciò che mangi e ti dirò chi sei… Tell me what you eat, and I willtell you what you are." Perhaps more than any other modern nation, Italyis deﬁned by and celebrated for its food. Exports such as vino, pizza,and gelato, so quintessentially Italian, are now readily available acrossthe globe. But what does food mean to Italians, and how does it reflect,magnify, and shape their collective identity? In this course, students willexplore references to food and gastronomy in Italian literature, television,cinema, and art. We will investigate how Italians past and present haveused food to talk about mechanisms of social belonging, disparity, andalienation. Beginning with today’s celebrity chefs and moving back toDante and the origins of Italian literature, we will learn about the historicalforces that influenced Italy’s evolving culinary traditions while honing ourItalian language skills.
IT 0253 Contemporary Italian Culture3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianPrerequisite: IT 0211.This course examines aspects of contemporary Italian culture in thearts, ﬁlm, music, media, and literature. Students analyze the debatesthat inform the political, social, and cultural dimensions of Italiansociety today. Readings include magazine and newspaper articles, printadvertisements, novels, short stories, and comic books. Students viewtelevision news reports, soap operas, commercials, and movies, andlisten to various types of contemporary Italian music. The course isconducted in Italian.IT 0255 The Novella3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: IT 0211.This course analyzes the most successful genre in Italian literature, thenovella (short story), as it evolved from the medieval era through theRenaissance to present day. Students read selections from Boccaccio,Basile, Bandello, Verga, Pirandello, Deledda, Morante, Moravia, Calvino,and others. The course is conducted in Italian.IT 0257 Theatre in Italy: Comedy from Machiavelli to Fo3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: IT 0211.From the erudite satires of the humanists to the political farces ofcontemporary playwrights, Italian comedy has always done more thanjust entertain. In this course we will study dramatic works by some ofItaly's most prominent authors (Machiavelli, Aretino, Goldoni, Pirandello,et al.) and explore the development of comic theater in Italy fromthe Renaissance to the present. We will weigh the social function ofhumor in Italian theater, along with issues relating to gender, power, andperformance. We will focus on the literary and historical dimensionsof these texts, but also use these lively comedies to hone our reading,writing, and oral skills in Italian. To that end, we will watch clips of theplays, regularly perform scenes together in class, and even experimentwith improvised "commedia dell'arte" scenarios.IT 0262 Rome in Cultural Imagination3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_BF EnglishLiterature Before 1800, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT ItalianStudies: ItalianThe city of Rome has been a source of wonder and amazementthroughout recorded history. This course examines the foundation mythsof the Eternal City in contrast to the historical accounts, discusses earlyaccounts of the life of the city, evaluates the reasons for its decline andfall, considers the riches of Renaissance and Baroque periods, analyzespoetry by the Roman people, and examines Rome's centrality for theworld of art. This course, which is conducted in English, also focuseson the political importance of the city from its inception through theRisorgimento (Italian Uniﬁcation), to Fascism and World War II, to presentday.IT 0271 Italian Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: Italian,VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis survey of Italian ﬁlms as textual, cultural, and historical artifactsanalyzes movements such as neorealism, commedia all'italiana, thespaghetti western, and new Italian cinema through the works of selecteddirectors. The course follows a chronology from the silent period topresent day, with special emphasis on the "golden ages" of Italian cinema,neo-realism of the postwar period, the 1960s' comedy of manners, andthe new Italian cinema of the '80s and '90s. Students analyze the worksof Rossellini, De Sica, Fellini, Visconti, Germi, Antonioni, Wertmüller,Leone, Pasolini, Moretti, Benigni, and others.IT 0289 Dante3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, E_AF EnglishLiterature After 1800, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT ItalianStudies: ItalianThis course examines the works of Dante Alighieri, including the Vitanuova, in addition to the "Inferno," "Purgatorio," and "Paradiso" fromthe Divine Comedy. Students are introduced to the political, linguistic,theological, and poetic ideas that make Dante's works not only signiﬁcantin the medieval context, but also continue to challenge and informmodern debates. This course, which is conducted in English, countstowards the core requirement in literature.IT 0290 Italian American Cinema3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: Italian,ITEN Italian Course Taught in EnglishThis course investigates salient aspects of Italian American cinema,including the representation of Italian Americans, works directedby Italian American directors, and roles played by Italian Americanactors. It also examines the difference in roles and representation formen and women in this subgroup of American society, with particularconsideration given to the ethnic roots of these differences. Throughoutthe semester we will examine the ways in which ﬁlm displays Italianethnicity in the United States. The course also analyzes the profoundinfluence of Italian cinema on the ﬁlmmaking of Italian Americanscreenwriters and directors. This class is taught in English.IT 0330 Redeﬁning the Cosmos: Voyages to the New World in the ItalianRenaissance3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: IT 0211.The Italian Renaissance has traditionally been understood as the verylaboratory of Modernity. In a time where new and revolutionary ideasabout art, politics and science took shape, Europe faced an extraordinarychallenge: how to integrate into "the Renaissance experiment" the newnatural and human experience that opened up with the discovery of theNew World. Italy produced an extraordinarily heterogeneous body of workthat stemmed from these voyages: that is, a "literature of discovery." Thiscourse will explore this literature, which includes epic poems, popularcantari, travelogues, historical and geographical treatises, as well asepistolary collections.IT 0377 Internship3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising andteaching in the language of their specialization. Department members,who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work. When requiredby a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student interns may be requiredfrom the institution where students work. The student's work shoulddemand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.IT 0378 Internship3 CreditsThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising andteaching in the language of their specialization. Department members,who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work. When requiredby a faculty supervisor, an evaluation of student interns may be requiredfrom the institution where students work. The student's work shoulddemand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent.
IT 0381 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: ASML American Studies: Language, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Italian,under the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.IT 0382 Coordinating Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ISIT Italian Studies: ItalianStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Italian,under the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement.IT 0393 Italian-American Experience3 CreditsAttributes: ASML American Studies: Language, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course analyzes the concept of nationality and national identityin literature, ﬁlm, and critical essays by and about Italian-Americans.The course also discusses the concept of ethnicity together withthe phenomenon of emigration and the difference in roles for menand women in this subgroup of American society. The success ofItalian-Americans in various sectors of society reveals the vitality anddetermination of this particular ethnic group in the face of prejudice andeconomic hardship. Students examine the contributions of Italians wholeft their native land for a new beginning and discuss the perceptionand reality of America as the "promised land" in the Italian-Americancommunity. The course is conducted in English.IT 0399 Capstone Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisite: Senior standing.Majors in Italian participate in an interdisciplinary seminar in the springof their senior year. The focus of this seminar varies according to theprofessor, but possible topics include European Film, The Grand Tour,Immigration in Europe, Capital Cities, Language Teaching and Technology,Europe and America. Students research their capstone papers intarget language and present ﬁnal work in English. The instructor may,in some cases, evaluate work in the target language in consultationwith colleagues in the area of expertise in the department. Seminar isconducted in English.Japanese (JA)JA 0110 Elementary Japanese I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Japanese or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.JA 0111 Elementary Japanese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: JA 0110.This course, a continuation of JA 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.JA 0210 Intermediate Japanese I3 CreditsPrerequisite: JA 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.). Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.JA 0211 Intermediate Japanese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: JA 0210.This course, a continuation of JA 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through a widevariety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.). Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.Latin (LA)LA 0111 Basic Latin4 CreditsThe course presents an intensive study of Latin grammar. Students whocomplete this course continue in LA 0210 and LA 0211.LA 0210 Readings in Latin Prose and Poetry I3 CreditsFor students with a high school background or the equivalent in Latin,this course ﬁlls out that background through extensive readings in theprincipal authors and genres not read in high school.LA 0211 Readings in Latin Prose and Poetry II3 CreditsPrerequisite: LA 0210.A continuation of LA 0210, this course ﬁlls out that background throughextensive readings in the principal authors and genres not read in highschool.LA 0321 Latin Poetry I3 CreditsPrerequisite: LA 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected authors of Latin poetry.LA 0322 Latin Poetry II3 CreditsPrerequisite: LA 0211.Involves extensive readings of selected authors of Latin poetry.LA 0323 Latin Prose I3 CreditsPrerequisite: LA 0211.Students undertake extensive readings of selected Latin prose authors inthis course.LA 0324 Latin Prose II3 CreditsPrerequisite: LA 0323.Students undertake extensive readings of selected Latin prose authors inthis continuation of LA 0323.
Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LAC)LAC 0300 Justice and the Developing World4 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, HASM HumanitarianAction Minor Skills/Method Course, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, PJSTPeace and Justice Studies, WDIV World DiversityThis interdisciplinary course combines the insights of history, politics,philosophy, anthropology, sociology, business, and economics to examineproblems of poverty and justice in the developing world - includinghealth, education, and environmental sustainability - with particular focuseither on Central or South America, or the Caribbean. Signiﬁcant to thecourse is a one-week immersion in one country, which is not requiredbut strongly encouraged. Students plan and carry out a research projectasking the critical questions and using the research methodologies oftheir academic major or minor. The immersion trip provides studentswith an intensive ﬁeld research opportunity, the ﬁndings from which theyincorporate into their papers.LAC 0301 Latin America and the United States3 CreditsAttributes: H_NW Non-Western History, H_RE History: Research Paper,LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityThis interdisciplinary course is not a course in diplomatic relations.Rather it considers the ways in which Latin Americans have perceived,analyzed, depicted, reacted to, and dealt with the United States. Thecourse considers essayists, poets, ﬁlmmakers, social scientists,statesmen, journalists, revolutionaries, artists, "vendepatrias", anddiplomats. This course, which fulﬁlls the requirement for the capstoneseminar in Latin American and Caribbean studies and counts as a historycourse, includes research papers and oral presentations.LAC 0373 Internship3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectiveShort-term internships in the ﬁeld of Latin American and CaribbeanStudies combine academic work with service that answers a community-identiﬁed need, and critical reflection. Such internships are offered in aLatin American or Caribbean country generally during the summer for afour to six-week period. Prior approval from the director(s) of the LACSprogram is required.LAC 0399 Independent Study1-4 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisites: At least one course in LACS; Junior or senior standing.A student may conduct a one-semester independent study on a deﬁnedresearch topic or ﬁeld of study under the supervision of a Professor in theLACS Program. Requires prior approvals by the Professor with whom thestudent will work as well as the Director of the LACS program.Management (MG)MG 0101 Introduction to Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: Sophomore standing.This course integrates, through theory and its application, the varioustopics, concepts, and modalities that make up the Managementdiscipline. Its purpose is twofold: 1) to provide all business studentswith a strong grounding in how individuals and organizations function tosupport the strategic goals of business, and 2) to provide a foundationfor further study by management majors and minors. The courseintroduces students to team/group work; the relationship of businessto local, national, and global communities; the ethical implications ofbusiness decisions and models; organizational behavior; human resourcemanagement; leadership and organizational culture.MG 0235 Managing Human Resources3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course introduces students to how effective management ofpeople can contribute to ﬁrm performance and competitive advantage.The course explores human resource management activities: humanresource planning, recruiting, selection, training, performance appraisal,compensation, and labor relations. Through extensive use of cases,simulations, and exercises, students actively learn to implement varioushuman resource management strategies to better serve organizationaland employee interests.MG 0240 Leading and Managing People3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course prepares students for the task of leading and managingpeople. The purpose of the course is to address advanced organizationalbehavior topics as well as to illuminate the research and practiceassociated with effective leadership. The ﬁrst segment of the coursereviews the leadership literature, including trait theory, aspectsof leadership style, leader emergence, contingency theories, andcharismatic/transformational leadership practices. The second segmentinvolves skill practice in managing people in the areas of communication,conflict resolution, empowerment, delegation, influence, teamwork,problem solving, and diversity issues. The third and ﬁnal segmentexplores strategic leadership from the CEO perspective, and addresseshow leaders create change and transform organizations.MG 0300 Business Strategies in the Global Environment3 CreditsPrerequisites: Matriculation in a business program, senior standing,completion of business core.This capstone course, required for senior level students in the School ofBusiness, integrates the business core through the concept of strategicmanagement. It offers an opportunity for students to put together allthey have learned in their discipline and to see the "big picture" of howbusiness organizations function. The primary goal is to prepare studentsto think like top managers and to understand that strategic decision-making encompasses all parts of the organization, internal and external,bringing together all disciplines of management. The course includeslectures, readings, cases, and a capstone group project.MG 0302 Topics in Human Resources3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course examines topics in human resource management as theyrelate to contemporary organizations. The course gives students an in-depth understanding of current issues or topics in the area of humanresources, giving special attention to the strategic aspect of humanresource management: how human resources can create value for theorganization. Topics may include strategic human resource management;human resource systems; human resource planning; quality of work life;flexible work; diversity; afﬁrmative action; legal aspects of employment;and work-family issues.
MG 0303 Topics in Management (Shell)3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, MGELManagement: General ElectivePrerequisite: Junior standing.This course gives students an in-depth understanding of current issuesand topics in management. The focus is on the application and analysisof managerial principles in contemporary problem solving. The facultymember teaching this course constructs course content around currentdevelopments in his or her research area. Topics may include decision-making in a chaotic environment; change management; organizationalstructure and design; health care; social justice; the political and socialcontext of organizations; the consequences of the free market logic;leadership; the environment; diversity and gender; e-business; andmanaging virtual teams and organizations.MG 0303C Topics in Management: Sports Media Platforms andStrategies3 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General ElectiveThis course is a thorough examination of the most prominent sportsmedia consumption platforms, covering how each has evolved overthe last 100 years and how they all co-exist today. Guest speakers fromleading sports media organizations and visits to network centers offerreal-world insights and detailed understandings of the sports medialandscape. Analyze how various businesses employ these platforms toengage fans and positively affect their bottom line.MG 0303D Topics in Management: Healthcare Management3 CreditsThis course will center on how the current disruption from volume tovalue is driving the business of healthcare organizations to measurequality and cost variation for every patient they serve. This managementcourse will examine how this uncertain path to value based care deliveryrequires both new partnerships and a new integrated language to guideclinical, ﬁnancial, and operational leaders on how to provide and measurebetter quality of care at a lower cost.MG 0303E Special Topics: Entrepreneurship Consulting3 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General ElectivePrerequisite: Junior standing.The Business Model Canvas/Strategyzer methodology will be utilized tobuild business plans for local entrepreneurial startups.MG 0303F Special Topics: Building High Performance Teams3 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General ElectivePrerequisite: Junior standing.The theory and experiential frameworks for effective team building andleadership in the business environment.MG 0320 Diversity in the Workplace3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course allows questions to be framed, and answers sought, withregard to the challenge of diversity in the work environment. Thecourse uses readings, exercises, and real-world projects to formulatethe following: a deﬁnition of diversity; an awareness of its impact onbusinesses and their managers; the identiﬁcation of the challengesthat diversity presents and the opportunities it allows for even moreproductive workplace interactions; and the necessary skills, attitudes,and patterns of critical thinking needed for effective leadership in thisimportant area. The course presents issues in the speciﬁc real-lifecontext of ethnic, racial, gender, and class groups.MG 0330 Career Planning3 CreditsPrerequisites: MG 0235 or MG 0240; Junior standing.This course prepares students for the job search while exploringtheoretical issues in career development over the life span. Theoriesof career development covered include: life stage and career stagemodels, aspects of politics that shape careers, issues of derailment,technical career paths, gender issues in careers, mentoring, and newcareer models, such as the boundaryless career, the protean career, andthe kaleidoscope career. Students undertake a resume revision process,develop a sample cover letter, participate in workshops on Internet jobsearching techniques, and practice mock interviews. An in-class sessionwith members of the Career Planning Center is included. Students mayalso receive credit for a job shadowing assignment, attendance at CareerFairs, and other career-related activities. Open to management majorsand minors only.MG 0335 Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course raises student awareness of the problems, opportunities,policies, and practices of the small-business enterprise and its uniquerole in the free enterprise system. The small-business ﬁrm is examinedfrom conception of the opportunity to operation of the ﬁrm, including thecreative idea, feasibility studies, the development of the business andﬁnancial plan, launching the venture, and managing the ﬁrm. Participantsstudy case problems of small-business ﬁrms.MG 0336 Social Entrepreneurship3 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General Elective, MGEN Management:Entrepreneurship ElectivePrerequisite: Junior standing.This course examines the tremendous opportunities that exist forcreating value in the social sector. Using entrepreneurial frameworks andbusiness metrics, social entrepreneurs are effecting change in domainsthat markets have failed to address. The objective of this course is tosensitize students to ways that ﬁrms can influence societal outcomeswhile continuing to be revenue generating, self-sustaining enterprises.The primary learning strategy will be through case presentations anddiscussions of current social entrepreneurs and their organizations.During the term, students will develop a business plan to support a viablesocial enterprise.MG 0337 Entrepreneurship: Product Development andCommercialization3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course focuses on those skills necessary for success in technologyentrepreneurship, beyond traditional business skills and entrepreneurialenthusiasm. These include managing an array of uncertainties includingtechnology, market, resource and organizational. The primary objectiveof this course is to give students the formalized training necessary tounderstand and manage these uncertainties. Coursework will includeexercises that require students to identify an unmet or underservedmarket need and a potential technological solution to serve this needwith the goal of helping students establish the basis for new venturecreation or product launch. This class will discuss both technology pushand market pull innovations. The course will progress from technologydevelopment/acquisition, through market assessment, business modeldevelopment, venture funding, and ﬁnally, preparation to launch.
MG 0338 Managing a Family Business3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course provides a foundation for understanding family businesses,which represent over 80% of the world's free economies. The dynamicsof ﬁrst generation start-ups or multi-generational family businesses areoften unique, yet tenuous to manage. Regardless of whether you area member of the managing family or assuming a position within theﬁrm, comprehension of the idiosyncrasies of successfully managingtheir complex operations is imperative. Through class discussions, casestudies, articles, role plays and your research project based on auditinga locally-based family enterprise, this course will enable you to analyzeand consider participating in a family business. Guest lectures from localfamily businesses will provide real-world application of the theories andconcepts discussed in class.MG 0340 Critical Issues in Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.This course applies the knowledge students have acquired from previousmanagement courses by examining integrative topics and issues in bothdomestic and global contexts. The focus of the course reflects traditionalcore concepts and their application to emerging critical issues in the ﬁeldof business management. Case studies and experiential learning are usedto enhance the classroom pedagogy.MG 0350 International Law3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method Course,WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course is a study of international laws, legal institutions, and thesocietal and cultural institutions that impact and regulate businessactivity throughout the world. The student is introduced to the risks ofinternational business and how those risks differ from doing businessdomestically; the function and importance of public international law; theinternational commercial transaction and its potential problems; and thebasic structure and principles of international trade law and negotiationsfor trade. Also discussed are the legal and ethical problems facingmultinationals operating in a number of countries, including licensing andprotection of international property rights, and a comparative analysisof host country employment laws. Special emphasis is placed on thedeveloping countries and emerging markets, such as China, Russia,India, Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and the Caribbean, with acomparative legal and cross-cultural perspective.MG 0355 Organizational Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.The notion of organizational culture is rooted in the assumption thatorganizations are greater than the sum of their material parts. Culture,therefore, is a means for close examination of the operating assumptionsshaping organizational identity and behavior. Special emphasis is placedon organizational thinking, the presuppositions driving thinking, and thechallenges that culture poses for substantive organizational change.MG 0360 Negotiations and Dispute Resolution3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course builds skills in negotiating and managing disputes andexplores various theories concerning negotiation styles, strategy andtactics, alternative dispute resolution, and the major legal and ethicalissues in the ﬁeld. The course strengthens negotiation skills, introducesthe many formal and informal processes available for dispute resolution,and develops managers' ability to resolve and prevent disputes. Theheart of the course is a series of experiential exercises that createopportunities to practice and develop the principles learned in the course.MG 0365 Ethics and Technology in Business3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course examines the ways computer technologies may pose newkinds of ethical issues that call for fresh approaches to thinking ethicallyabout business. The purpose of the course is to help students prepare todeal effectively with ethical issues of a technology they are likely to facein their careers.MG 0370 Managing Non-Proﬁt Organizations3 CreditsAttributes: HASM Humanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method Course,MGHR Management: HR ElectivePrerequisite: Junior standing.This course provides students with an understanding of the nonproﬁtsector and exposure to fundamentals in managing nonproﬁtorganizations. It explores a broad range of topics including: the role ofnonproﬁts in society, executive leadership and governance relationshipsin nonproﬁt organizations, the legal framework of nonproﬁts, humanresource management of staff and volunteers, marketing and publicrelations, fundraising, budgeting and ﬁnancial management, and strategicplanning in the nonproﬁt sector. Special emphasis will be placed onleadership and the unique challenges that nonproﬁt leaders face in local,national, and global environments.MG 0375 Sports Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course examines effective and efﬁcient management within theculture of sports organizations. It distinguishes the managementrequirements in sports organizations. Current issues in the various sportsindustries are analyzed and the actions of the industries' managementare reviewed and critiqued. Different types of organizational structuresare studied and their method for motivating, managing, and evaluatingthe performance of employees, individually and in teams, is discussed.This course also identiﬁes effective management styles and placesemphasis on the importance of sound communication skills and goalsetting. The fundamental purpose of this class is to provide studentswith an understanding of how to apply the principles of business and/orthe elements of organization to sport. Over the semester, students willhave the opportunity to explore basic theories of management, humanresource management, politics, ﬁnance, marketing, resource acquisition(fundraising and corporate support), sports law, broadcast properties,media and publicity, future trends in facilities as well as philosophical,sociological, and culture considerations of sport.MG 0380 Performance, Compensation, and Reward3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.This course covers theories and practices for effective compensationmanagement. Topics include strategic perspectives of compensationsystems, determining pay structure, job analysis, and job evaluation,design and administration, external pay competitiveness, designing paylevels, employee contributions and individual pay, subjective performanceevaluation and merit pay, alternative reward systems, employee beneﬁts,government's role and compliance, pay discrimination, budgets and payadministration, and union role in wages and salary administration.
MG 0385 Managing People for Global Business3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: Senior standing.This course recognizes the complexities of managing human resourcesin the global business arena. Modern-day business is characterized bythe relentless pace of globalization, through formation of internationalcollaborations, mergers, joint ventures, and the opening up of newmarkets such as China, India, and Eastern Europe. There has beena dramatic increase in virtual work teams across several countries,globally outsourced work, and cultural diversity in the workplaceas more people move across national borders to work. As a result,human resource management practices like recruitment, training,compensation, performance management, and employee relations aremore complex. Additionally legal and regulatory requirements of foreigncountries, cultural differences, expatriate management, and workforcemobility become important considerations. This course analyzes thesecomplexities along with in-depth study of the people-related issues indifferent countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America, and Eastern Europe.MG 0390 Cross-Cultural Management3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: Senior standing.Globalization, the internationalization of markets and corporations,has changed the way modern corporations do business. This courseexamines major themes and issues in the area of cross-culturalmanagement. It focuses on three perspectives: the values, attitudes,and behaviors that are common to a cluster of countries, speciﬁc to onecountry, or speciﬁc to a major cultural subgroup or subgroups within onecountry. It explores what happens when cultures clash, and the need tounderstand different approaches to doing business in a diverse world.MG 0391 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MG 0392 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MG 0393 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MG 0394 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MG 0397 Seminar in Management3 or 6 CreditsAttributes: MGEL Management: General ElectiveThis special program involving independent study and research underfaculty guidance is also intended for students accepted in an approvedinternship. Open only to seniors majoring in management and approvedby the department chair. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.MG 0398 Seminar in Management3 or 6 CreditsThis special program involving independent study and research underfaculty guidance is also intended for students accepted in an approvedinternship. Open only to seniors majoring in management and approvedby the department chair. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher.MG 0400 Organizational Behavior3 CreditsThis course examines micro-level organizational behavior theories asapplied to organizational settings. Topics include motivation, leadership,job design, interpersonal relations, group dynamics, communicationprocesses, organizational politics, career development, and strategies forchange at the individual and group levels. The course uses an experientialformat to provide students with a simulated practical understanding ofthese processes in their respective organizations.MG 0500 Leadership3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0400.This course focuses intensively on the art and science of leadershipin organizations by examining the critical links between leader skills,strategy, and organizational change utilizing a human resourcesapproach. The course strives to assist students from every concentra-tion -- including ﬁnance, marketing, information systems, accounting,and international business -- to become leaders who can motivate andmobilize their people to focus on strategic goals. The material covered inthis course will include traditional, contemporary, and strategic theoriesof leadership. Students will assess their leadership skills, and engage ina series of assignments designed to improve and establish conﬁdence intheir own abilities to lead.MG 0503 Legal and Ethical Environment of Business3 CreditsThis course helps students be more responsible and effectivemanagers of the gray areas of business conduct that call for normativejudgment and action. The course is designed to develop skills in logicalreasoning, argument, and the incorporation of legal, social, and ethicalconsiderations into decision-making. The course teaches the importanceof legal and ethical business issues and enables students to make adifference in their organizations by engaging in reasoned considerationof the normative aspects of the ﬁrm. Using the case method, the courseprovides an overview of current topics, including the legal process,corporate governance, employee rights and responsibilities, intellectualproperty and technology, and the social responsibility of business to itsvarious stakeholders.MG 0504 Managing People for Competitive Advantage3 CreditsThis course focuses on effectively managing people in organizations byemphasizing the critical links between strategy, leadership, organizationalchange, and human resource management. Topics include the strategicimportance of people, leading organizational change, corporate socialresponsibility, implementing successful mergers and acquisitions, andfundamentals of human resource practices. Discussions interweavemanagement theory with real-world practice. Class sessions are acombination of case discussions, experiential exercises, and lectures.
MG 0505 Human Resource Strategies: An Analytics Approach3 CreditsHuman Resource Strategy is the linkage between human resourcemanagement (HRM) and ﬁrm strategy, contributing to competitiveadvantage of the ﬁrm. Human capital, which is knowledge, skills andabilities (KSA) of people, is one of the strategic assets of the ﬁrm.HRM entails recruitment and selection, training and development, totalcompensation and rewards, performance management, employeerelations (such as diversity management, work life balance, legal andethical compliance, safety issues) and other people related practices.In this course students will analyze how these practices can be alignedwith the strategy of the ﬁrm and lead to greater ﬁrm performance. Thestudents will take an analytics approach to generate for effectivelymanaging employees so that business goals can be reached quickly andefﬁciently. the challenge of human resources analytics is to identify whatdata should be captured and how to use the data to model and predictcapabilities so the organization gets an optimal return on investment(ROI) on its human capital.MG 0506 Organizational Culture3 CreditsThis course starts from the premise that organizations are more than thesum of their parts and best understood as complex, evolving cultures.Indeed, organizations prosper or stumble on the meanings they produce.An organization's structure, control mechanisms, leadership, andidentity are not, therefore, to be treated as brute facts of nature but asaccomplishments of culture-bound human imaginations. Predicted onthis 'constructivist' perspective, this course employs pressing questionsabout the efﬁcacy of market-based culture (e.g., resource depletion) toimprove students' skills in reconsidering corporate business purpose andsocial and environmental obligation.MG 0507 Negotiations and Dispute Resolution3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0500.This course uses the theories of negotiation and alternative disputeresolution, along with extensive experiential exercises, to build individualnegotiation skills and to help students manage disputes from a businessperspective. The course emphasizes ways of managing both internal andexternal disputes.MG 0508 Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation: TheEntrepreneurial Firm3 CreditsThis course begins by presenting cutting-edge concepts and applicationsso that students understand the dynamics of innovation, the constructionof a well-crafted innovation strategy, and the development of well-designed processes for implementing the innovation strategy. It thenfocuses on the building of an entrepreneurial organization as a criticalcore competency in the innovation process. Concurrent with this, itfocuses on the development and support of the internal entrepreneuror Intrapreneur as part of the process of developing organizational corecompetencies that build competitive comparative advantages that, inturn, allow the ﬁrm to strategically and tactically compete in the globalmarketplace. Topics explored include technology brokering, lead users,disruptive technologies and the use of chaos and complexity theory inthe strategic planning process.MG 0510 Management Communication, Influence, and Power3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0500.This course examines the critical factors involved in communication,influence, and power in organizations. It emphasizes that a businessstrategy, decision, or idea is effective only if it is communicated in away that persuades an audience. The course is intended for managerswho seek to become more effective communicators, whether it is withone person, a group, or a large audience. Fundamentals of persuasionand influence tactics provide the context for considering such topics ascritical listening skills, assessing one's emotional intelligence, analyzingcommunication networks, gender differences in communication, andstrategies for communicating during conflict. The course addresseshow to formulate communication objectives and strategy; assess levelsof credibility; power, audience diversity, and corporate culture; analyzemessage structure; and choose appropriate communication media.This is an involved, hands-on class. In-class exercises, oral and writtenpresentations, and case discussions provide vivid illustrations of theconcepts.MG 0512 The Law of Commercial Transactions: Advanced Studies in theUniform Commerical Code3 CreditsThis course offers an in-depth analysis of laws and legal principlesrelevant to commercial transactions. Several articles of the UniformCommercial Code will be studied, including: Articles 2 and 2A (Sales,Warranties and Leases of Goods); Articles 3 and 3A (NegotiableInstruments - i.e., checks, drafts, promissory notes); Articles 4 and 4A(Bank Collections and Deposits); Article 5 (Letters of Credit); Article 7(Warehouse Receipts) and Article 9 (Secured Transactions). Federalbankruptcy law (with particular attention to Chapters 7 and 11) will alsobe considered.MG 0520 Diversity in the Workplace3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0500.Students explore the value of diversity in organizations. They developan increased understanding of the ways in which differences in theworkplace can enhance both personal development and organization-al effectiveness. To accomplish this, students explore why diversityhas become a central strategic issue, their own diversity framework,the relationship between diversity and management effectiveness, andstrategies for valuing diversity. The class addresses speciﬁc dimensionsof diversity and the knowledge and skills students must develop to workeffectively with people who are different.MG 0525 Performance Management3 CreditsThis course builds on the foundational evaluations and reward conceptscovered in "Managing People for Competitive Advantage." Studentsexplore in some depth the employee performance management,compensation, and reward systems in organizations. Topics may include360 degree feedback programs, ESOPs, proﬁt sharing, gain sharing,and the strategic use of employee beneﬁts. The course focuses on howemployee performance management, compensation, and reward systemscan lead to a competitive advantage for ﬁrms.MG 0530 Entrepreneurship3 CreditsThis course covers entrepreneurship and small business management.The course focuses on the development of entrepreneurial start-upventures from the point of view of the founding entrepreneur. The courseexplores characteristics and skills of successful entrepreneurs, thestages of growth of entrepreneurial businesses, the crises in start-upventures, and issues confronting family and small business management.Students may create their own start-up business plan in conjunction withfaculty as the primary course requirement.
MG 0531 Social Entrepreneurship3 CreditsThis course is about understanding how entrepreneurial skills can beused to craft innovative responses to pressing social needs. These skillsare opportunity recognition, assembling resources, launching a venture,scaling it and ﬁnally ensuring its sustainability. There will be an emphasis,throughout the course, on how exemplar for-proﬁt enterprises have beenable to successfully contribute to widespread economic well-being andsocial development while enjoying signiﬁcant proﬁtability. Students willappreciate that the pursuit of proﬁt and poverty alleviation need not bemutually exclusive domains and the institutional requirements that areneeded to ensure this outcome.MG 0535 International Human Resources Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0500.This course delves into the complexities of managing human resourcesin the global business arena. Business today is characterized by therelentless pace of globalization through the formation of internationalcollaborations, mergers, joint ventures, and the opening of new markets.A major challenge posed by this landscape is the need to understandthe similarities and differences in people management practices acrosscultures and countries. As ﬁrms enter global markets, hire foreignemployees, or outsource work to foreign countries, human resourcesmanagement practices such as recruitment, training, compensation,performance management, and employee relations become morecomplex. Legal and regulatory requirements of foreign countries, culturaldifferences, expatriate management, and workforce mobility becomeimportant considerations for global businesses. This course exploresthese complexities and analyzes in-depth the people-related issues indifferent countries.MG 0540 Cross-Cultural Management3 CreditsThis course develops a framework for distinguishing the various stagesof cooperative relationships across national cultures, which have distinctcharacteristics and call for different modes of behavior. The stages ofthis framework include: identifying a cross-cultural win-win strategy;translating the strategy into viable action plans; executing the strategyand making cross-cultural collaboration happen; and assuring thatemerging synergistic organizations become self-initiating entities. Thecourse identiﬁes and discusses in detail the necessary managerial skillsfor the support of each of these stages.MG 0545 Law and Human Resources Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0503.This course examines law and public policy issues relating to employeerights and obligations, including employment discrimination, OSHA,pension and beneﬁt issues, minimum wage, and workers' compensation.The course provides a basic overview of the law and its relevance tohuman resource strategy and operations.MG 0550 International Business Law and Regulation3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0503.This course examines public and private international law and regulation,emphasizing issues relevant to doing business internationally.MG 0555 Labor Relations3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0505.The dual aim of this course is to acquaint students with the dynamics ofthe labor-management relationship and to make them better negotiatorsand managers of workplace conflict. Toward these ends, this courseexamines the processes of bargaining and dispute resolution, primarily inthe context of the unionized environment. Case studies, law cases, andexperiential exercises are used to explore issues such as negotiationsstrategy, mediation, and arbitration. Successful models of cooperativerelations between management and labor are also covered.MG 0560 Career Planning and Development3 CreditsPrerequisite: MG 0500.This course provides students an opportunity to explore career planningand development issues from two perspectives, as a job-seekingcandidate and as an employer engaged in the hiring and developmentprocess of employees. The course will provide theoretical background ona number of career development topics, including: career developmentover the life span, career transitions, work-family balance, and post-retirement issues. Cases on individuals negotiating career issuessuch as new roles associated with promotion, managing technical orentrepreneurial careers, aspects of derailment and family issues will bepresented. The second part of the course will be devoted to experientialactivities that are designed to enhance one's career planning skills.Students take a self-assessment survey and participate in workshopson resume creation, mock interviewing, and social media applicationsassociated with the job search.MG 0580 Contemporary Topics in Management and HumanResources1-3 CreditsThis course examines recent practitioner and academic literaturein various areas of management. Topics vary each semester. Guestspeakers may be invited as appropriate.MG 0584 Global Competitive Strategy3 CreditsThis course considers the formulation of effective policy andaccompanying strategy actions, and the management of such policiesand actions. It examines the role of the general manager in this processand presents the diversiﬁed issues and problems the managementof a business ﬁrm may be required to consider and solve in strategicplanning. This course also examines the problems and tasks of strategyimplementation and the general manager's function of achievingexpected objectives and establishing new ones to assure the continuityof the business organization. Students are required to prepare a businessplan as part of this course.MG 0595 Contemporary Topics in Human ResourcesManagement3 CreditsThis course examines recent academic literature in various areas ofHuman Resources Management. Topics vary each semester to ﬁt theinterests of the seminar participants. Guest speakers may be invited asappropriate.Management of Technology (MOT)MOT 0405 Supply Chain Design3 CreditsThis course deals with the optimization of processes in a supply chainusing analytical techniques and modeling. The term "supply chain" refersto all the resources required in moving material through a network ofmanufacturing processes, quality assurance measures, maintenance,and customer interfaces to produce, deliver, and maintain a product.These are modeled using simulation of this chain, permitting an analystto design the supply chain and to predict its performance. Studentsare taught to create discrete simulation models that will reflect theactual performance of a supply chain, prior to committing investmentsin inventory, procurement and fabrication. These simulations offer threegeneral beneﬁts: a) may be used to achieve an optimized design; b) maybe used in solving production expansion needs; and c) can be used tolocate and correct problems in an existing manufacturing system.
MOT 0407 Design of Manufacturing Systems and Processes3 CreditsIn this course, students will learn the signiﬁcance and ramiﬁcationsof "Lean Manufacturing" practices and advantages they provide toa manufacturing company. They will learn how to analyze the crossfunctional processes and to understand how strategic businessobjectives are translated into speciﬁc actions involving facilities,equipment, new skills, and process improvements that must beachieved. Tactical planning and execution design are introduced usingspeciﬁc analytical techniques including: (1) statistical segmentationof demand, (2) production and inventory considerations of facility andproduct design, including the impacts of variability, (3) use of statisticalsegmentation for make-to-stock, make-to-order, and make-to-planstrategies, (4) introduction to replenishment techniques including: levelloading, rhythm cycles and considerations for safety and cycle stock, and(5) use of postponement strategies in optimizing inventory control.MOT 0415 Information Systems3 CreditsThis course offers insights into the capabilities of modern softwareand computing systems, allowing prospective technology managers todiscriminate between effective and ineffective applications of softwareand network systems - considerations essential to managing businessesthat depend upon efﬁcient data and information processing. The coursecovers inputs, outputs, storage, transmission media and informationprocessing, and networking. The course presents current InformationTechnology (IT) topics designed to enable one with knowledge vitalto a successful career as a manager. The student is provided with aknowledge of: hardware and software fundamentals, system categories,overviews of programming languages, networks and communicationsconcepts, e-commerce concepts, cloud and distributed computing,middleware, database technology, ERP with an overview of the SAPproduct, system planning, systems development methodologies,traditional and object oriented analysis and design techniques, softwarepackage evaluation and selection techniques, IT management issues andpractices. In class case studies are discussed and lectures may at timesdelve into deeper technical matters. This course provides the studentwith both conceptual and managerial knowledge as well as practicalhands on knowledge, useful in joint project team settings and designed toallow one to better lead and participate in company projects.MOT 0420 Design for Economy and Reliability3 CreditsConsiderations of reliability permit a product to achieve a desiredperformance throughout its service life, thereby satisfying those whohave purchased it. Careful thought and design produce reliabilityand economy of manufacture. This course instructs the prospectivetechnology manager in the considerations leading to creation of cost-effective products of quality and presents: (1) the Total Design method,(2) concurrent engineering and the effective use of design reviews, (3)quality function deployment, (4) cost structures and models, (5) materialsselection and economics, (6) robust design validation techniques and theTaguchi method, and (7) the Fault Tree and its use as a diagnostic aid indesign validation.MOT 0450 Planning, Research, and Development3 CreditsThis course addresses the formation and development of new ideasand their subsequent use in the creation of products and services. Thisinvolves the creation of systems developed from the integration ofknowledge in design, development, software and economics and theapplication of Earned Value and Accountancy. The knowledge so gainedis to be applied, often iteratively, to create new conceptions of productsand service. This work simultaneously addresses performance andcost. Graphic methods for planning projects are instructed. In additionspecialized analytical processes are presented that permit an evaluationand critique of new concepts. These processes and techniques areapplied in group activities. In addition, the course requires essentialresearch into speciﬁc issues. This research is to be undertaken as partof homework assignments on recommended subjects in which thestudents will learn the methods that serve to enhance their knowledgeand communicate this to enrich the lecture sessions in each class. Insummary, the means for developing new ideas and methods to applythem are presented in this course. These newly learned resources will beapplied in group actions to gain experience in their use and thus createuseful tools for future circumstances that require their application.MOT 0460 Project Management3 CreditsThis course concentrates on the general methodology of managing atechnology project from concept to operational use with emphasis onthe functions, roles, and responsibilities of the project manager. Study ofthe basic principles and techniques related to controlling resources (i.e.people, materials, equipment, contractors, and cash flow) to complete atechnology project on time and within budget while meeting the statedtechnical requirements. Through group and individual activities, includingcase study review, students will learn to apply project management toolsand techniques.MOT 0465 Agile Project Management3 CreditsProvides an introduction to Agile concepts and tools to create andimprove customer and user value. A core set of lean and Agile conceptsare presented and applied. Agile project management methods suchas scrum or Kanban have become the de-facto standard in softwaredevelopment and are increasingly used in other areas as well. This courseis an introduction to scrum and focuses on building experience with themethod. Other Agile methods are covered as well. The course content,in addition to reading assignments, uses practical assignments such ascase studies, projects, and simulations to provide applied experience withAgile practice.MOT 0470 Leadership in Technical Enterprise3 CreditsThis course introduces major leadership theories and explores the issuesand challenges associated with leadership of technical organizations.The course integrates readings, experiential exercises, and contemporaryleadership research theory. Participants investigate factors that influenceeffective organizational leadership as well as methods of enhancingtheir own leadership development. The course prepares executives,supervisors, and managers to master the complex interpersonal, social,political, and ethical dynamics required for leading modern organizations.
MOT 0485 Management of Intellectual Property3 CreditsIntellectual property may exist in many forms and often goesunrecognized as a part of the wealth of corporations when it can actuallyrepresent the most valuable property a corporation holds. This courseinstructs students in how to recognize the different types of intellectualproperty and the different forms of protection that may be used to protectits loss to competitive agencies. In addition to enlightenment as towhat form it may take, the students are instructed in how to determineits monetary value and how to use it to advance important companyobjectives such as increasing sales volume and how to establish policiesand methods to protect it from theft by competitive ﬁrms. Throughout thecourse, students learn how to address the legal issues surrounding therights of ownership and the existence of infringements. They recognizethe speciﬁc issues that distinguish an invention (or any other form ofintellectual property) from its competition, causing it to obtain an edge inthe market place.MOT 0500 Introduction to Systems Engineering3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the fundamental principles ofsystems engineering (SE) and their application to the development ofcomplex systems. It describes the role that systems engineering playsas an integral component of program management. Topics includerequirements analysis, concept deﬁnition, system synthesis, designtrade-offs, risk assessment, interface deﬁnition, engineering design,system integration, and related systems engineering activities. TheFriedman-Sage matrix is used as a framework for analysis purposes. Thecourse deﬁnes the breadth and depth of the knowledge that the systemsengineer must acquire concerning the characteristics of the diversecomponents that constitute the total system. Case studies and examplesfrom various industries are used to illustrate the systems engineeringprocess.MOT 0510 Design for Reliability3 CreditsThis course will present techniques to prevent operational failuresthrough robust design and manufacturing processes. Engineering designreliability concepts based on statistical models and metrics will beintroduced. Techniques to improve reliability, based on the study ofroot-cause failure mechanisms will be presented. Students will gain thefundamentals and skills in the ﬁeld of reliability as it directly pertainsto the design and the manufacture of software, electrical, mechanical,and electromechanical products. The course provides insight on howto incorporate reliability, availability, maintainability, and serviceabilityaspects (RAMS) into all phases of the product lifecycle.MOT 0515 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course is intended to broaden the student's knowledge in a speciﬁcarea of interest. Students may pursue topics or projects under thesupervision of a faculty member. Enrollment by permission only.MOT 0525 Principles of Quality Management3 CreditsThis course is designed to provide a comprehensive coverage of qualitymanagement including planning, assurance and control. It providesan introduction to the fundamental concepts of statistical processcontrol, total quality management, Six Sigma and the application of theseconcepts, philosophies, and strategies to issues arising in governmentand industry. Emphasis will be placed on both theory and implementationmethods. Students will gain an understanding of the application of thenumerical tools used by teams in the quality management problem-solving process. Statistical methods and case studies are employed.The course is designed to assist students in developing processes bywhich they will be able to implement these methods in their workingenvironment.MOT 0591 Capstone I: Project Deﬁnition and Planning3 CreditsIn this ﬁrst semester of the capstone course, students form projectgroups, conceive technical approaches to problem solutions, and developdetailed plans and a schedule for project activities. Students executethe planning process using appropriate professional software such asMicrosoft Project. Students in each team produce a detailed projectplan deﬁning the work to be done (task descriptions), the task/subtaskorganizational structure, task responsibilities (assigning who does what),the task execution schedule (e.g., Gantt charts), areas of risk and riskabatement concepts, and provide an explanation of the value of the workto be performed to fulﬁll the objectives.MOT 0592 Capstone II: Project Execution and Results3 CreditsThe second semester of the capstone course concerns implementationof the project plan developed in the prior semester. This typically includeshardware fabrication, software development supporting analytical work,detailed design, experimental studies, system integration, and validationtesting, all of which serve as proof of meeting project objectives in dataand functional demonstrations. Project teams submit a ﬁnal reportfor grading and make a formal presentation to faculty, mentors, andinterested personnel from associated industries.Marketing (MK)MK 0101 Principles of Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisite: Sophomore standing.This course introduces the fundamental concepts and theories thatdrive day-to-day marketing decisions. A thorough understanding ofthe marketplace (consumer or business-to-business) is at the heartof such decision making. In this course, students will learn to identifyand satisfy customer's wants and needs. The core tools that enablemanagers to move from decision-making to action are addressed, namely:product development, pricing, channel management and structure, andpromotions (including advertising and sales). Additional topics includeglobal marketing, societal and marketing ethics, and digital marketing.Students are required to work in a team to construct a marketplaceanalysis for a chosen product/service.MK 0212 Consumer Behavior3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This course provides students with an understanding of the behavior ofconsumers in the marketplace, using an interdisciplinary approach thatemploys concepts from such ﬁelds as economics, psychology, socialpsychology, sociology, and psychoanalysis. Topics include motivation,perception, attitudes, consumer search, and post-transactional behavior.MK 0221 Sales and Sales Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.This course is intended to give the student an understanding of theimportant role of the sales function in the overall marketing effort of theﬁrm and in the ﬁrm's overall success. The course focuses on the salesprocess (prospecting, making presentations, handling objections andclosing the sales), and the management of the sales force (recruiting,training, motivating, compensating, and supervising salespeople). Ethicalissues in selling and new technologies that impact the sales effort arealso covered.
MK 0231 Advertising3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.This course focuses on strategic management of a ﬁrm's integratedmarketing communications, the most notable element of whichis advertising. Itemphasizes the importance of seamlessly andsynergistically coordinating numerous promotional mix elements tocreate a uniquely memorable voice with which to communicate andengage the target audience in a lasting relationship with the ﬁrm's brand.Topics include advertising message strategy, creative strategy andexecution, media strategy, and various relationship-building promotionaltools. Also discussed are current events and ethical issues in advertisingand promotion.Through activities and projects, students prepare forcareers in advertising and related industries.MK 0241 Digital Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.From social networks to mobile applications, marketing in the digital ageis markedly different than in the past. The course identiﬁes marketingstrategies that work in this new environment. Students will study how e-business and digital marketing continue to alter the business landscapeand how certain theoretical frameworks can help to explain some ofthe current issues in the ﬁeld. Speciﬁcally, students will examine howdigital marketing has affected product, pricing, distribution, research,communication, and public policies.MK 0251 Social Media Marketing3 CreditsAttributes: MKEL Marketing: General ElectivePrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.The course takes an in-depth look at social networks and social mediaplatforms (e.g., blogs, discussion forums, Facebook, Twitter, other forumsof user-generated content) from a strategic perspective. The primaryfocus of this course will be on understanding social media as partof a brand's marketing communications, how to build strategies andtactics to help brands differentiate and rise above the noise on the socialweb, and how to track their effectiveness. Topics to be covered includeconstructing a brand strategy on social media, engaging influencers,content development, social media analytics and measurement, andsocial media platforms.MK 0261 Sports Marketing3 CreditsAttributes: MKEL Marketing: General ElectivePrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.This course is offered to address the growing interest in the sportsindustry as a business career. The course will provide an overview ofhow sports marketing can work as a component of a fully integratedmarketing communication strategy. The course is designed to helpstudents better understand the sports consumer, and how corporationsand sports organizations can apply core marketing concepts to helpachieve their business objectives. Marketing strategies such as marketsegmentation, target marketing and the marketing mix are covered withinthe context of sporting event sponsorships and professional sportsteams. Additional topics such as sports governing organizations, sportsmedia, licensing and hospitality will be covered.MK 0311 Marketing Research3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; EC 0278 or MA 0017 or MA 0217 or PY 0201 orSO 0221; junior or senior standing.This course gives students an appreciation of the role of marketingresearch in understanding customers to better address their needsand wants, as well as in reducing the risks associated with marketingdecisions. Topics include problem formulation, research design, datacollection instruments, sampling, data analysis, and communication ofresults. Students will get hands-on experience with different stages of themarketing research process.MK 0312 Global Marketing3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.This course instills in students an appreciation of the complexitiesencountered in marketing products and services in global markets. Thecourse discusses differences that exist among consumers in differentcultures and also provides students with an understanding of the role ofexternal elements such as economic, political, legal, cultural, geographic,and social environmentson the formulation of a ﬁrm's marketing strategyin foreign markets.MK 0321 Marketing Channels3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; junior or senior standing.This course provides a management focus and managerial framework tothe discipline of distribution and channel management, emphasizing thedesign and management of marketing channels as a key strategic tool insatisfying the needs of the customers in the new millennium. The courseintegrates theory and practice, and applies them to the decision-makingprocesses. The course also discusses the importance of the Internet as amarketing channel for the distribution of goods and services.MK 0322 Business-to-Business Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This course examines the characteristics that differentiate industrialfrom consumer marketing. Topics include the nature of industrialdemand; buyer characteristics; industrial market research; competitivebidding; selling of industrial products; sales and advertising strategiesin marketing to business, government, and non-proﬁt organizations; andpractices and policies in the distribution of industrial goods.MK 0331 Media Strategy3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This course examines the basic processes involved in strategic mediaplanning including budgeting, selecting media forms and media vehicles,media timing, and media audience measurement. Students understandthe role of traditional and non-traditional media, as well as new mediasuch as the Internet, as channels for communicating promotionalmessages to consumers. The course also covers varied media allocationmodels.MK 0332 Public Relations3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This course facilitates the fundamental understanding of audiences:receiving information from them, advertising management of theirattitudes and responses, helping to set policies that demonstrateresponsible attention to them, and constantly evaluating theeffectiveness of all public relations programs. This inclusive roleintegrates all activities associated with ascertaining and influencing theopinions of a group of people. The course pays increasing attention to theuse of electronic technology for messages from fax machines to e-mail tospecialized networks in cyberspace.MK 0341 Brand Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This course focuses on one element in the marketing mix: the product. Itexamines such questions as how should a ﬁrm effectively and efﬁcientlymanage its current product line and develop potential new products.Consideration is also given to strategic planning.MK 0342 Contemporary Issues in Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Junior or senior standing.This seminar on current marketing issues familiarizes students with thelatest issues, events, and problems in marketing. The subject matter forthe course draws upon recent events in marketing and course materialsare derived from current periodicals and cases.
MK 0391 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MK 0392 Internship3 CreditsPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MK 0393 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MK 0394 Internship1 CreditPrerequisite: Junior standing.Students may take two semesters of internship, approved by thedepartment. Students must have a GPA of 2.5 or higher. Enrollment bypermission only.MK 0397 Seminar in Marketing3 or 6 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Senior standing.This is a special program involving independent study and researchunder faculty guidance. Open only to seniors majoring in marketing andapproved by the department chair. Students must have an overall GPA of2.5 or higher.MK 0398 Seminar in Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0101; Senior standing.This is a special program involving independent study and researchunder faculty guidance. Open only to seniors majoring in marketing andapproved by the department chair. Students must have an overall GPA of2.5 or higher.MK 0400 Marketing Management3 CreditsThis course examines analytical and managerial techniques that applyto marketing functions with an emphasis on the development of aconceptual framework necessary to plan, organize, direct, and control theproduct and strategies needed for promotion, distribution and pricing of aﬁrm's products. The course also considers the relationship of marketingto other units within a ﬁrm.MK 0500 Customer Value3 CreditsPrerequisite: MK 0400.This course examines the concept of customer value with the goal ofunderstanding how it can be used to achieve customer satisfaction,which in turn generates loyalty and, ultimately, a long-term customer-ﬁrm relationship. Topics include the nature of the costs and beneﬁtsassociated with the notion of customer value, measuring and analyzingcustomer value and satisfaction, and understanding the associatedconcepts of customer loyalty and customer relationship management.The class consists of a mix of lectures, case analyses, in-depthqualitative research projects, and opportunities for practical applications,such as a marketing simulation.MK 0510 Customer Behavior3 CreditsThis course offers an interdisciplinary approach to understanding thebehavior of consumers in the marketplace, covering concepts fromthe ﬁelds of economics, psychology, social psychology, sociology,and psychoanalysis. Topics include motivation, perception, attitudes,consumer search, and post-transactional behavior.MK 0520 Marketing Research3 CreditsThis course provides an overview of the risks associated with marketingdecisions and emphasizes developing skills for conducting basic marketresearch. Topics include problem formulation, research design, datacollection instruments, sampling and ﬁeld operations, validity, dataanalysis, and presentation of results.MK 0535 Building Brand Equity3 CreditsThis course focuses on the theory and conceptual tools used to developand implement product and service branding strategies, as meansfor insuring brand awareness, acceptance, and success, or "equity," inthe marketplace. The course highlights the importance and impact ofthe brand in the marketplace; identiﬁes various decisions involved increating successful brands; provides an overview of different means formeasuring brand effectiveness; and explores the existence of customer-brand relationships. The course incorporates three general modules:Module 1: Identifying/Developing Brand Equity, Module 2: MeasuringBrand Equity, and Module 3: Managing Brand Equity.MK 0540 Advertising Management3 CreditsThis course provides a comprehensive overview of advertising andpromotional processes, and develops strategies facilitating managerialdecisions in the areas of advertising, public relations, sales promotion,and direct marketing. This course analyzes the importance and influenceof advertising in the changing marketplace; provides students withan integrated approach for analyzing marketing communicationopportunities; develops the capability for designing, implementing, andevaluating advertising campaigns; and promotes an understanding of thedifferent methods of measuring advertising effectiveness.MK 0550 Global Marketing3 CreditsThis course investigates the role of marketing and marketingmanagement in different environments. It focuses on the distinctionbetween the various marketing activities in a domestic setting versus theimpact of the cultural, political, and geographic issues faced in differentcountries and regions of the world.MK 0560 Business-to-Business Marketing in the InternetEconomy3 CreditsThis course develops an applied understanding of the principles ofbusiness-to-business marketing, which focuses on organizationalcustomers who buy for production purposes rather than individualswho buy for personal consumption. The techno-economic purchasemotivations of organizational customers require appropriate adaptationof product, promotion, distribution, and pricing strategies. The courseexamines the strategic and operational implications of organizationalbuyer behavior and other special characteristics of business-to-businessproducts and services that influence their marketing strategy. The courseincorporates the vital and speciﬁc role of the Internet as an integral andindispensable instrument of every function and activity in business-to-business marketing operations in all subjects.MK 0570 Digital Marketing3 CreditsThe move to an Internet-based society is among the changes expectedto have a signiﬁcant impact on the way that business is, and will be,conducted. This course pays particular attention to the impact of Internettechnology on marketing strategy and practices, and discusses Internettechnology and e-business in the context of established marketingconcepts such as promotion, distribution/logistics, pricing, retailing,marketing research, customer behavior, and other product/servicedecisions from a practical and academic perspective. Students developan in-depth understanding of the marketing implications of this promisingbusiness management development.
MK 0580 Multivariate Data Analysis for Decision Making3 CreditsPrerequisite: MK 0520.With unprecedented growth in data availability, companies areincreasingly focusing on data driven decision making in marketing.As most of this data is multivariate, an understanding of statisticaltechniques used to analyze it gains paramount importance. Theobjective of this course is to develop skills with a range of proceduresfor multivariate data analysis involving dimension reduction, patternrecognition, classiﬁcation, and prediction. Students will engage inexperiential exercises that require utilizing statistical software toorganize and analyze data, interpreting the results, and presentingactionable conclusions for decision making.MK 0585 Seminar: Contemporary Topics in Marketing3 CreditsThis course examines recent practitioner and academic literature invarious areas of marketing, incorporating guest speakers as appropriate.Topics vary each semester to ﬁt the interests of the seminar participants.MK 0590 Experimental Research in Marketing3 CreditsPrerequisites: MK 0400, MK 0520.Experiments are widely used in marketing research to investigate causeand effect relationships, such as the impact of a price change on sales,or the impact of a new promotional campaign on brand awareness,or the impact of a change in the ingredients of a product on brandacceptance. This course is intended to acquaint the student with thebasic topics of experimental design and analysis. It is intended to providean understanding of the components of an experiment, the various typesof experimental designs, the analysis of experimental results and whenexperiments are indicated as a research option.Mathematics (MA)MA 0010 Mathematics for Liberal Arts3 CreditsThis course presents major mathematical concepts in an historical andcultural setting. Topics include geometry, set theory and logic, along withothers that are the choice of the instructor. Students explore the interplaybetween mathematics, philosophy, and the arts in addition to the moretraditional relationship between mathematics and the physical sciences.The course treats mathematics as an art for its aesthetic beauty and asa science, providing a mathematician's view of the subject rather thanpreparing students for a speciﬁc application of mathematics.MA 0011 Precalculus3 CreditsTopics in this course include: algebra; linear, rational, exponential,logarithmic and trigonometric functions from a descriptive, algebraic,numerical and graphical point of view; limits and continuity. Primaryemphasis is on techniques needed for calculus. This course does notcount toward the mathematics core requirement, and is meant to betaken only by students who are required to take MA 0119, MA 0145,or MA 0171 for their majors, but who do not have a strong enoughmathematics background.MA 0015 Mathematics: An Exploration3 CreditsThis course introduces various ideas in mathematics at an elementarylevel. It is meant for the student who would like to fulﬁll a coremathematics requirement, but who does not need to take mathematicsfor her or his major. Topics will vary, depending upon the instructor, but ingeneral will include topics of both historical and current interest.MA 0016 Concepts of Calculus3 CreditsThis course introduces differentiation and integration, and showshow these ideas are related. The course illustrates how important andinteresting applied ques¬tions, when expressed in the language ofmathematical functions, turn out to be questions about derivativesand integrals and, thus, can be solved using calculus. The basicconcepts of calculus are numerically, algebraically, and geometricallyinvestigated, using graphing technology to illustrate many of theunderlying geometrical ideas. This is a terminal core course and is nota prerequisite for any other course. Please note that MA 0011 is not anappropriate course to take before taking MA 0016.MA 0017 Introduction to Probability and Statistics3 CreditsThis introduction to the theory of statistics includes measures of centraltendency, variance, Chebyshev's theorem, probability theory, binomialdistribution, normal distribution, the central limit theorem, and estimatingpopulation means for large samples. Students who have received creditfor any mathematics course at the 100-level or higher may not take thiscourse for credit without the permission of the department chair.MA 0119 Applied Calculus I3 CreditsPrerequisite: Precalculus.Topics in this course include: foundations of the calculus; differentiationof algebraic, exponential and logarithmic functions; extrema and curvesketching; applications of derivatives; antiderivatives; the FundamentalTheorem of Calculus; and integration of algebraic functions. A graphingcalculator and Wolfram Alpha are among the technologies that may beused. Students who received credit for MA 0145 or MA 0171 may not takeMA 0119 for credit.MA 0120 Applied Calculus II3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0119.Topics in this course include: applications of the derivative, includingimplicit differentiation, related rates and linear approximation; integrationof algebraic, transcendental and trigonometric functions; differentiationof trigonometric functions; techniques of integration; applications of thedeﬁnite integral; inﬁnite series. A graphing calculator and Wolfram Alphaare among the technologies that may be used. Students who receivecredit for MA 0146 or MA 0172 may not receive credit for MA 0120.MA 0145 Calculus I for Chemistry, Engineering, and PhysicsMajors4 CreditsPrerequisite: Precalculus.This course covers analytic geometry; continuous functions; derivativesof algebraic and trigonometric functions, product and chain rules, implicitfunctions; extrema and curve sketching; indeﬁnite and deﬁnite integrals;applications of derivatives and integrals; exponential, logarithmic andinverse trig functions, hyperbolic trig functions, and their derivatives andintegrals. It is recommended that students not enroll in MA 0145 unlessthey have a solid background in high school algebra and precalculus.MA 0146 Calculus II for Chemistry, Engineering, and PhysicsMajors4 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0145 or MA 0171.This course covers applications of the integral to area, arc length,and volumes of revolution; integration by substitution and by parts;indeterminate forms and improper integrals: Inﬁnite sequences andinﬁnite series, tests for convergence, power series, and Taylor series;geometry in three-space.
MA 0151 Functional Programming3 CreditsThis course provides an introduction to the theory and practice ofprogramming in the functional paradigm. Functional programming isbased on a view of programs as data and computing as calculation.This approach facilitates the development of programs that are concise,elegant, and free of broad classes of errors. Topics covered will includea broad introduction to computing, symbolic representation of data,recursion, algebraic data types, the lambda calculus as a model ofcomputing, higher-order functions and type systems. Students willcomplete the course with both the ability to program and a usefulfoundation for further study of topics in discrete math, logic, proof, andcomputer science theory. No prior programming experience is required.May be taken as one course in the core requirement in mathematics.MA 0171 Calculus I4 CreditsPrerequisite: Precalculus.This is our most rigorous ﬁrst-year calculus sequence. However, studentsare not expected to have had calculus before taking this course.Topics include functions; limits (including the epsilon-delta deﬁnition),continuity, and derivatives; trigonometric functions and their derivatives;applications; relative and absolute extrema, and curve sketching; relatedrates; Rolle's Theorem and the mean value theorem; antiderivatives,deﬁnite integrals and area, and the fundamental theorem of calculus. Itis recommended that students not enroll in MA 0171 unless they have asolid background in high school algebra and precalculus. Students whohave received credit for MA 0119 or MA 0145 may not take MA 0171 forcredit.MA 0172 Calculus II4 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0145 or MA 0171.This course is the continuation of MA 0171. Topics include integrationby substitution and by parts; areas between curves; volumes ofrevolution; inverse functions; logarithms and exponential functions;inverse trigonometric functions; indeterminate forms and l'Hospital'srule; improper integrals; and inﬁnite sequences and series, includingconvergence tests, absolute and conditional convergence, power seriesand Taylor series. Students who have received credit for MA 0120 orMA 0146 may not take MA 0172 for credit.MA 0211 Applied Matrix Theory3 CreditsStudents majoring in the sciences, economics, and business learn thebasic techniques and applications of linear algebra, including solvinglinear systems of equations, determinants, linear geometry, eigenvalues,and eigenvectors. Closed to mathematics majors. Students may notreceive credit for both MA 0211 and MA 0235. Mathematics majors maynot take this course as a mathematics requirement or elective.MA 0217 Accelerated Statistics3 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisite: MA 0119 or MA 0145 or MA 0171.This introductory, calculus-based statistics course focuses onapplications in business, statistics, and everyday events. Topics includedescriptive statistics including mean, median, mode, standard deviation,histograms, distributions, box plots, and scatter plots; probability theoryincluding counting rules, random variables, probability distributions,expected values, binomial and normal distributions, and the central limittheorem; inferential statistics including point estimates, conﬁdenceintervals, and hypothesis testing; and regression theory. Students learnto analyze data with the aid of common software packages. Mathematicsmajors may not take this course as a mathematics elective. Studentswho have received credit for MA 0352 may not take MA 0217 for credit.MA 0221 Applied Calculus III3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0120 or MA 0146 or MA 0172.This course covers ﬁrst order differential equations, vectors in 2-D and 3-D, partial differentiation and multiple integrals. This is the third course inthe three-course sequence MA 0119, MA 0120, MA 0221.MA 0231 Discrete Mathematics3 CreditsTopics in this course include logic; sets; functions; equivalence relationsand partitions; mathematical induction; and countability.MA 0235 Linear Algebra3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0231.Students examine linear spaces and subspaces; linear independenceand dependence; bases and dimension; linear operators; matrixtheory; determinants and systems of linear equations; eigenvalues andeigenvectors. Students may not receive credit for both MA 0211 andMA 0235.MA 0245 Calculus III for Chemistry, Engineering, and PhysicsMajors4 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0146 or MA 0172.Topics include partial differentiation; chain rule, exact differentials,maxima and minima; multiple integration; application to volumes,center of gravity; and polar, cylindrical, and spherical coordinates; vectorarithmetic and algebra, dot and cross products, parametric equations,lines and planes; gradient, directional derivative, curl, divergence;line integrals, work, Green's theorem, surface integrals; Stokes's anddivergence theorems.MA 0251 Ordinary Differential Equations3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0221 or MA 0245 or MA 0273.This course presents the solution of ﬁrst order differential equationsand of higher order linear differential equations; power series solutions;Laplace transforms; and a multitude of applications. Mathematics majorsmay not take this course as a mathematics elective. Students who havereceived credit for MA 0331 may not take MA 0251 for credit.MA 0273 Multivariable Calculus4 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0172 or MA 0146.Topics in this course include vectors in the plane and in three-space;equations of lines and planes; vector functions; arc length; functions ofseveral variables, limits, continuity, differentiability and partial derivatives,the gradient, directional derivatives; tangent planes; relative and absoluteextrema; multiple integration in cartesian, cylindrical, and sphericalcoordinates; vector ﬁelds; line integrals; Green's theorem.MA 0300 Topics in Discrete Mathematics3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0231.This course builds on the skills developed in MA 0231. Topics includebasic combinatorics (permutations, combinations, counting complicatedsets, binomial coefﬁcients), elementary number theory (divisors,Euclid's algorithm, modular arithmetic), and elementary graph theory(connectivity, circuits, cycles, planar graphs, graph isomorphisms).Sophomores will have priority registration for this course.MA 0331 Applied Mathematics3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0235, MA 0273.This course covers the theory and solution of ordinary differentialequations: ﬁrst-order equations, linear equations of arbitrary order,and linear systems; power series solutions; Laplace transforms; andexistence and uniqueness of solutions. Students who have receivedcredit for MA 0251 may not take MA 0331 for credit.
MA 0332 Partial Differential Equations3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0245 or MA 0273; MA 0251 or MA 0331.Topics in this course include ﬁrst order PDEs and the method ofcharacteristics; separation of variables for linear homogeneous PDEs;eigenvalue problems; Fourier series; solution of the 1-D heat equation, the1-D wave equation, and the 2-D Laplace equation, both homogeneous andnon-homogeneous; and Fourier transforms.MA 0334 Abstract Algebra3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0231, MA 0235.Students study group theory, rings and ideals, integral domains, andﬁelds.MA 0337 Number Theory3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognatePrerequisite: MA 0231.This study of the integers includes but is not limited to: primes and theirdistribution, divisibility and congruences, quadratic reciprocity, specialnumerical functions such as Euler's one-function, and Diophantineequations. Students consider the influence number theory has had on thedevelopment of algebra and the interplay between the two.MA 0342 Theory of Computation3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0231.This course explores what computers can and can't do, although it doesnot require any background in computer science or programming. Topicsinclude ﬁnite state machines, push-down automata, Turing machines andrecursive functions; mechanisms for formal languages, such as regulargrammars, context-free grammars, context-sensitive grammars; anddecidable versus undecidable problems.MA 0351 Probability Theory3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognatePrerequisites: MA 0231 or CR 0245; MA 0245 or MA 0273.Topics in this course include counting techniques; axiomatic probabilitytheory; discrete and continuous sample spaces; random variables,cumulative distribution functions, probability density and mass functions;joint distributions; expected value and moments; common distributionslike the normal, binomial, and Poisson distributions; and limit laws.MA 0352 Mathematical Statistics3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognatePrerequisite: MA 0351.This course covers transformations of random variables; statisticalapplication of probability; theory of sampling and the Central LimitTheorem; variances of sums and averages; estimation and hypothesistesting; and least squares, curve-ﬁtting, and regression.MA 0354 Actuarial Problem Solving1 CreditPrerequisite: MA 0352 (may be taken concurrently).This course explores the methods and techniques of solving problems inactuarial mathematics for students interested in the actuary ﬁeld. Thiscourse covers, via student led problem sessions and lectures, the toolsfor quantitatively assessing risk as presented on Society of ActuariesExam P.MA 0361 Topics in Algebra3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0334.This course investigates three topics in greater depth than can be done inthe ﬁrst linear or abstract algebra course. Topics may include canonicalforms for matrices, metric linear algebra, ideal theory, ﬁnite non-abeliangroups, and Galois Theory. The course typically includes one linear andone abstract algebra topic.MA 0371 Real Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0231, MA 0273.This course examines the set of real numbers as a complete, ordered,archimedean ﬁeld; R as a linear vector space equipped with inner productand norm; metrics, particularly Euclidean, on R, topological concepts:continuity, connectedness, and compactness; the intermediate value,extreme value, monotone convergence, Bolzano/Weierstrass and Heine/Borel theorems; convergence and uniform convergence of sequences ofcontinuous functions; differentiation.MA 0373 Complex Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0231, MA 0273.Topics in this course include algebra of complex numbers, Cauchy-Riemann equations and analytic functions, complex differentiation,integration in the complex plane, Cauchy's Theorem and integral formula,conformal mapping, Laurent series and residue theory, and applications.MA 0377 Numerical Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0172, MA 0235, proﬁciency in a computer language.This course investigates computer arithmetic, round-off errors, thesolution of nonlinear equations, polynomial approximation, numericaldifferentiation and integration, and the solution of systems of linearequations via student-written code to implement the algorithms and/orthe use of available software.MA 0383 Modern Geometry3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognatePrerequisites: MA 0231, MA 0235.Topics in this course include: foundation for plane geometries; theoremsof Menelaus, Ceva, Desargues, Pascal, Brianchon, and Feuerbach;inversion and reciprocation transformations; projective, Riemannian andLobachevskian geometries; and Poincar' model.MA 0385 Point Set Topology3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0371.This course considers topological spaces, continuous functions; product,metric, and quotient spaces; countability and separation axioms;existence and extension of continuous functions; compactiﬁcation;metrization theorems and complete metric spaces.MA 0390 Honors Seminar I3 CreditsThis course is open to senior mathematics majors with a mathematicsGPA of 3.5 or higher and invited junior and senior mathematics majorswith demonstrated ability who have been recommended by themathematics faculty. This seminar provides talented students with anopportunity to undertake individualized study under faculty direction.Participants present several lectures before a group of peers. Theseminar's subject matter varies each semester.MA 0391 Honors Seminar II3 CreditsThis course is open to senior mathematics majors with a mathematicsGPA of 3.5 or higher and invited junior and senior mathematics majorswith demonstrated ability who have been recommended by themathematics faculty. This seminar provides talented students with anopportunity to undertake individualized study under faculty direction.Participants present several lectures before a group of peers. Theseminar's subject matter varies each semester.MA 0395 Special Topics in Mathematics3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0231; additional mathematics courses depending onthe topic.Mathematical topics not currently among the department's offerings canbe offered one-time or to allow a professor the opportunity to "test drive''a course for the ﬁrst time.
MA 0397 Internship1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.The internship program provides senior mathematics majors withopportunities to gain practical, career-related experience in a varietyof supervised ﬁeld settings. Student interns select from a variety ofplacements, especially those requiring applications of mathematics,numerical methods, and statistics. Interns spend a minimum of 10hours per week working at the placement site and complete the requiredacademic component speciﬁed by their faculty advisor. Internshipcredits vary; interns may register for a summer session and/or oneor two semesters for an overall maximum of six credits. In addition,an internship must satisfy the requirements outlined in the UniversityInternship Policy, which is available from the Career Planning Center. Aninternship may not take the place of a mathematics elective. Enrollmentby permission only.MA 0398 Internship1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Senior standing.The internship program provides senior mathematics majors withopportunities to gain practical, career-related experience in a varietyof supervised ﬁeld settings. Student interns select from a variety ofplacements, especially those requiring applications of mathematics,numerical methods, and statistics. Interns spend a minimum of 10hours per week working at the placement site and complete the requiredacademic component speciﬁed by their faculty advisor. Internshipcredits vary; interns may register for a summer session and/or oneor two semesters for an overall maximum of six credits. In addition,an internship must satisfy the requirements outlined in the UniversityInternship Policy, which is available from the Career Planning Center. Aninternship may not take the place of a mathematics elective. Enrollmentby permission only.MA 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsIndependent study provides students with the opportunity to examineareas not covered in the undergraduate curriculum. Under the guidanceof a faculty member, advanced students learn about an area inmathematics through reading and research. Independent study includeswritten work in the form of exercises or papers. Students apply toa professor under whose direction they wish to study and obtainthe approval of the department chair. This course may not replace amathematics elective to fulﬁll the requirements for the major, unlessspecial permission is given by the department chair.MA 0401 Introduction to Applied Mathematics3 CreditsThis course provides an introduction to essential techniques in the studyof ordinary differential equations, including separation of variables,characteristic equations for linear equations, variation of parametersand Laplace transforms. The course also includes an introduction tofundamentals of applied linear algebra, including solutions of systems oflinear equations, vector spaces, matrices, determinants, eigenvalues andeigenvectors.MA 0417 Applied Statistical Methods3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the techniques in applied statisticalmethods as used in the physical sciences, social sciences andbusiness. Topics include probability (reliability, discrete and continuousdistributions); descriptive and exploratory statistics using analytic andgraphical tools; basic statistical testing (sampling techniques, theoryof estimation and standard hypothesis testing); regression analysis(normal linear model, multivariate regression, and model building astime permits); correlation techniques; analysis of variance and factorialdesigns if time permits; proportion tests, chi-squared analysis and otherdiscrete data techniques as time permits. Included is the use of computersoftware, such as R, SPSS and Minitab.MA 0418 Applied Statistics II3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0417.This course is a continuation of MA 0417, Applied Statistics, and coversadditional statistical concepts used in the physical sciences, socialsciences, business and health studies. Topics include, but are notlimited to, conﬁdence intervals, regression analysis (multiple regression,logistic regression and regression with categorical predictors), analysisof variance (two-way, factorial design, repeated measures and mixedmodels), analysis of categorical variables (measures of association,chi-squared tests, odds ratio, relative risk, McNemar's test) and non-parametric tests. One statistical package such as R, SPSS and Minitab,will be used throughout the course. Students should have a laptop.MA 0435 Linear Algebra3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0401.This graduate-level treatment of linear algebra includes generalvector spaces; basis and dimension; linear transformations; linearoperators and the relationship to matrices; inner product spaces andorthonormalization, least squares approximations, Hilbert spaces;diagonalization and other canonical forms for matrices; eigenvalues,eigenvectors, and applications to ordinary differential equations;and Hermitian, unitary, and positive deﬁnite matrices. The coursealso incorporates a discussion of the historical development oflinear algebra, the relationship of linear algebra to analysis, and acoordinated introduction to a symbolic algebra program such as Maple orMathematica.MA 0436 Abstract Algebra3 CreditsThis graduate level treatment of abstract algebra with a focus on ringtheory includes the integers, the division algorithm divisibility criteria,primes and unique factorization; equivalence relations and congruenceclasses, modular arithmetic; rings, basic properties of rings, ideals, ringhomeomorphisms; ring of polynomials, divisibility algorithm, irreducibleelements and unique factorization properties, roots and irreducibility;quotients rings, prime and maximal ideals; Euclidian domains, principalideals domains, factorization domains, ﬁeld of quotients of an integraldomain; introduction to group theory. This is a proof-intensive course.MA 0451 Probability Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0417.This graduate-level treatment of the theory of probability includesa brief review of probability spaces and ﬁnite counting techniques,random variables and distribution functions, density, mass functions, andexpectation. The course also examines the standard random variables;multivariate distributions; functions and sums of random variables;limit theorems - weak and strong law of large numbers and the centrallimit theorem. The course also discusses the historical development ofprobability.MA 0452 Statistics Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0451.This graduate-level treatment of the theory of mathematical statisticsincludes theory of estimators, maximum likelihood techniques; theory ofestimation; hypothesis testing theory - decision analysis; and Bayesianmethods. The course also discusses the historical development ofstatistics.MA 0471 Real Analysis3 CreditsThis graduate-level treatment of real analysis includes the completenessof the real numbers; the topology of Euclidean n-space and itsgeneralizations to metric and topological spaces; convergence andcontinuous functions; sequences of functions; general differentiability;the theory of integration and the Lebesgue integral; inﬁnite series anduniform convergence; and a discussion of the historical development ofreal analysis.
MA 0472 Complex Analysis3 CreditsThis graduate-level treatment of complex analysis includes the complexnumber ﬁeld and its properties; complex analytic functions and theirdifferences with real functions; the complex integral; Cauchy's Theoremand consequences; and a discussion of the historical development ofcomplex analysis. This is a proof-intensive course.MA 0495 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsMathematical topics not currently among the department's offerings canbe offered one-time or to allow a professor the opportunity to "test drive"'a course for the ﬁrst time.MA 0510 Foundations and Set Theory3 CreditsThe foundations of modern mathematics lie in set theory and logic.This course provides a graduate-level treatment of these areas in thefoundation of theoretical mathematics. It is also a good preparationfor proof-intensive courses for those without a solid undergraduatefoundation in theoretical mathematics.MA 0531 Dynamical Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0401.This course provides an introduction to the study of dynamical systemsfrom the point of view of both continuous time and discrete timesystems. Topics include ﬁxed point and stability analysis for linearand nonlinear flows in one and two dimensions, phase plane analysis,bifurcations and limit cycles, one-dimensional maps, chaos and Lyapunovexponents.MA 0532 Partial Differential Equations3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0401.This graduate-level treatment of partial differential equations includesboundary value problems; Fourier series, and Fourier transforms.MA 0535 Advanced Abstract Algebra3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0436.A collection of topics in advanced abstract algebra, this course includesgroup theory, ﬁeld extensions and Galois. This is a proof-intensive course.MA 0537 Number Theory3 CreditsThis graduate-level survey of the problems and techniques of numbertheory includes elementary number theory and introductions to analyticand algebraic number theory. This is a proof-intensive course.MA 0550 Classical Financial Mathematics3 CreditsThis course covers the basic mathematics of classical ﬁnancialinvestments. It will include the basic formulas for compound interest andeffective yields, inﬁnite series and exponential functions, annuities andperpetuities, amortization and sinking funds, time value of money, andbond and stock discounts.MA 0565 Use of Technology in the Classroom3 CreditsDesigned for teachers, this course surveys various computer softwaremathematics packages suitable for use in the classroom, such as Maple,Mathematica, MATLAB, SKETCHPAD, and ISETL. The course includes adescription of the programs and discusses how they can be integratedinto a classroom setting.MA 0577 Numerical Analysis3 CreditsThis course provides a graduate-level treatment of numerical analysisand the numerical solution of mathematical problems and includes anintroduction to computer implementation of numerical algorithms.MA 0578 Mathematics of Financial Derivatives3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0550.This course covers the theory of ﬁnancial derivatives, including anexplanation of option pricing theory and investments, the idea of ﬁnancialderivatives, stochastic differential equations, and the Black-Scholesmodel.MA 0583 Geometry3 CreditsThis course offers a graduate-level treatment of Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometry and is highly recommended for teachers. This is aproof-intensive course.MA 0585 Topology3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0471.This course provides an introductory, graduate-level treatment of point-set and algebraic topology and topological methods. This is a proof-intensive course.MA 0590 Capstone Project0 CreditsThis is an independent project or presentation planned by the studentwith the help of a faculty mentor and produced by the student throughoriginal work. The project is typically based on the content of a courseand is worked on in conjunction with that course, but students can alsolearn the necessary material in a three-credit independent study with theirmentor.MA 0599 Independent Study3 CreditsThe Master's Degree Program in Mathematics affords each studentthe opportunity to do an independent study course with a professor/mentor. This can either be an existing course in the program or a courseon an advanced topic in mathematics. In the latter case the syllabus andrequirements are developed by the student and the faculty mentor.Mechanical Engineering (ME)ME 0201 Engineering Statics3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0115L, MA 0146.This introduction to rigid body mechanics using vector representationcovers free body diagrams and static equilibrium in two- and three-dimensional space; solves problems in trusses, frames, and simplemechanisms; and develops methods in problem-solving techniquesusing computer-based approaches. Students perform lab experiments tosupport lecture theories and prepare professional-level reports.ME 0203 Kinematics and Dynamics3 CreditsPrerequisites: ME 0201, MA 0245.This course presents kinematics principles applied to particles andrigid body elements. Topics include analysis of forces and motion usingNewton's second and third laws of motion; theory of kinetics of particlesand rigid body elements under rectilinear and curvilinear motion, vectormethods; principles of work, energy, and power; and momentum andimpact.ME 0203P Kinematics and Dynamics PLG0 CreditsME 0206L Mechanics Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisite: ME 0201.Students do mechanics experiments for two- and three-dimensionalstructures under static loading conditions. Concepts include vectors,equilibrium, moments, truss analysis, forces, and center of gravity ofobjects. This course includes topics in engineering materials, such ashardness, toughness, microscopic analysis, machinability and thermalproperties. The course introduces strain gages, instrumentation andstatistical data analysis. Students perform experiments and preparelaboratory reports.
ME 0207 Materials Science3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVNSEnvironmental Studies: Natural Science, EVPE Environmental StudiesElectivePrerequisites: CH 0111, CH 0111L.This course covers chemical and physical properties of metals, polymers,and ceramics. Subjects include atomic structure, crystallography,strengthening mechanisms, microstructure, chemical composition,diffusion, binary phase diagrams, transformation diagrams, corrosion andmaterials science protection. Importance of the interrelationship betweena material's processing, microstructure, and properties is discussed. Thelab demo portion examines material science testing and microstructureanalyses. Sample preparation and metallographic techniques are alsolearned.ME 0241 Principles of Thermodynamics3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0115L, MA 0245.This course on macroscopic thermodynamics with applications coversconservation of energy for open and closed systems; equations ofstate and pure substances; ﬁrst and second law of thermodynamics,including the concepts of internal energy; and enthalpy and entropyas applied to aero-thermal components. Tables of thermodynamicproperties, ideal gases and elements of cycle analysis, and applicationsof thermodynamic cycles, such as Carnot and Rankine, are discussed.ME 0307L Dynamics Systems Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisites: ME 0203, ME 0308.Students perform experiments covering the concepts of kinematics,dynamics, and mechanisms. Concepts included are: Newton's Laws,momentum, mechanical energy, impact, and friction. The course includesconcepts in the area of strength of materials, such as: stress, strain,loading, modulus of elasticity, and fatigue. It also covers analysis ofbeams, photoelastic studies, and statistical data analysis. Studentscomplete written lab reports.ME 0308 Strength of Materials3 CreditsCorequisite: ME 0203.Prerequisites: ME 0201, MA 0245.This course examines concepts of two-dimensional stress andstrain, factors of safety, thermal strain, static indeterminacy, stressconcentration, bending including normal and shearing stresses, torsion,direct shear, principal stresses; Mohr's Circle; thin-walled pressurevessels; beam theory including shear and bending moment diagrams;deflection; elastic curves; indeterminate beams; energy methods; the useof superposition; and impact effects and column theory. Lab experimentsreinforce these aspects of theory. This course includes a design project.ME 0310L Product Manufacturing Lab1 CreditThis course is designed to be an introductory course in the ProductManufacturing ﬁeld. The course provides theoretical concepts aswell as the development of the knowledge and skills required in CNCprogramming, machine setup and operation, 3D printing, laser, manualmachining and metrology. The laboratory portion emphasizes practicalapplication of CNC machine tools, 3D printing, and manual machining,which involve set-ups and procedures for operation.ME 0311 Machine Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0308.This course applies the fundamentals of mechanical engineering designto analyze, design, and/or select components typically used in the designof complete mechanical systems. The course covers the design processand analysis of stress and deflection; material properties and loading(steady state and variable) as they relate to failure prevention; and theprocedures for design and analysis of common machine elements suchas columns, cylinders, fasteners and springs. In team reverse-engineeringprojects, students apply the course topics to real hardware. The courseemphasizes computer techniques and responsible design (safety factorsand ethics).ME 0318 Finite Element Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: EG 0130, MA 0251, ME 0308.An introduction to concepts in ﬁnite element analysis; this course coversone- and two- dimensional element formulation and structural analysis.This ﬁnite element analysis is extended to three dimensional problemsin dynamic systems and control, design and manufacturing, mechanicsand materials, and fluids and thermal systems. This course will providean overview of the complimentary topic of computational fluid dynamics(CFD). Students solve problems both manually and with the use ofmodern computer ﬁnite element software, ANSYS and FLUENT.ME 0319 Applications of Finite Element Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0318.This course examines applications of ﬁnite element analysis in modernengineering including structural analysis, fluid flow and heat transfer. Itis an introduction to the concepts of dynamics as applied to structure.Finite element formulations covering 1-, 2-, and 3-dimensional elementsas well as energy methods are developed. Students develop techniquesfor application of ﬁnite element method in structural design, dynamicsystem response, fluid and thermal analyses. Application of methodologyto fluid flow is presented. Students solve example and design problemsmanually and using modern ﬁnite element analysis software, ANSYS andFLUENT.ME 0320 Vibration Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: ME 0318; MA 0251 or ME 0322.Fundamental laws of mechanics. Free and forced vibration of discretesingle and multi-degree- of-freedom systems. Periodic and harmonicmotion, viscous damping, and measures of energy dissipation. Modalanalysis for linear systems. Computational methods in vibration analysis.Natural frequencies and mode shapes. Analytical dynamics and Lagrangeequation. Longitudinal, torsional, and flexural vibration of continuouselastic systems, (strings, rods, beams). Energy methods. Approximatemethods for distributed parameter systems. Dynamic response by directnumerical integration methods. ANSYS modeling will be covered.ME 0321 Theory and Applications of Robot Kinematics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0203.Topics in advanced kinematics include introduction to basic conceptsand deﬁnitions related to kinematics, commonly used links and joints,kinematic analysis of mechanisms, introduction to robotic mechanisms,homogeneous transformations, Euler angles, Denavit-Hartenbergrepresentation of forward kinematics of robots, inverse kinematicssolution of robots, degeneracy and dexterity, and differential motion andvelocity relations. Industrial application of kinematics will also be coveredand the course will include a laboratory or project component.
ME 0322 Advanced Dynamics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0203.The topics in the area of dynamics include degrees of freedom,generalized coordinates, constraints, , physics of failure, flexures,and optmechanics. The course will focus on practical applicationsof advanced dynamics, including linkages, cams, and kinematicmechanisms, as well as computer applications and project design.ME 0323 Thermal Management of Microdevices3 CreditsThis course addresses the thermal design in electronic assemblies whichincludes thermal characteristics, heat transfer mechanisms and thermalfailure modes. Thermal design of electronic devices enables engineers toprevent heat-related failures, increase the life expectancy of the system,and reduce emitted noise and energy consumption. This course providesthe required knowledge of heat transfer for such analysis and variousoptions available for thermal management of electronics. This coursealso presents advanced methods of removing heat from electroniccircuits, including heat pipes, liquid immersion and forced convection.ME 0324 Micro and Nano Manufacturing3 CreditsPrerequisites: CH 0111, ME 0207, PS 0116.This course will introduce students to the latest advancements in microand nano manufacturing. The course will enable students to becomefamiliar with advanced manufacturing techniques in light of the globalemphasis on micro and nano manufacturing. Topics to be coveredinclude lithography, mechanical micromachining, laser fabrication,polymers and nanocomposites, and nano imprinting. The importanttopics of metrology and process control at the micro and nano scale willalso be discussed. Students will conduct a class project integrating thedifferent processes for an application in electromechanical or biomedicalﬁeld. A lab component is also present where students get a hands-onexperience with material processing and characterization tools. Open toseniors only.ME 0325 Engineering Systems Dynamics3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0251, ME 0318.The student will become familiar with the analysis of the dynamicresponse of structures, structural components to transient loads, andfoundation excitation. Course includes single-degree-of-freedom andmultiple-degree-of-freedom systems, frequency response concepts, andintroduction to modal analysis. Basic concepts of vibration control andcontrol theory will be introduced.ME 0327 Fracture Mechanics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0308.This course covers fracture mechanics concepts for design, materialsselection, and failure analysis. The fundamental principles of fractureparameters and criteria, stress ﬁeld at the tip of a crack, fracturetoughness, thickness effect, plastic zone concept, and crack growthunder cyclic loading and aggressive environment will be presented.Emphasis will be placed on the practical applications of fracturemechanics by incorporation ofa failure investigation study where thestudents utilize the skills developed with the course to root cause a realworld failure. Taking a holistic approach each student will have theirown case study and learn to incorporate fracture mechanics, materialscience, mechanics of materials, computer simulation and manufacturingtechniques and knowledge into their project.ME 0330 Mechanics of Composite Materials3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0207.While the use of man-made composites have existed for centuriesfor practical applications, engineered composite materials are ﬁndingincreasing use in many high technology applications such as aerospace,electronics, sporting goods, and structural components for highstability systems. This course is designed to provide a comprehensiveunderstanding of classiﬁcation, processing, properties, selection andfailure of polymer, metal and ceramic based composite materials.ME 0342 Applications of Thermodynamics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0241.This course applies concepts learned in ME 0241. Topics includemixtures of ideal gases and vapors; psychrometry; combustion analysisof common power generating, refrigeration, and air conditioning cycles;ﬁgures of merit including thermal efﬁciency; continuity equation, basicenergy relations for turbomachinery; fundamentals of compressorand turbine design; and application and synthesis of design usingthermodynamic principles. This course includes a lab segment.ME 0346 Energy Conversion3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0347.This course covers the major topics in energy conversion, includingfuels used in energy conversion; solar energy; gas turbine engines andapplications; internal combustion engines; heat pumps; classic and novelpower and refrigeration cycles; system analysis; system economics; andenvironmental considerations. The course includes computer simulationof power plant performance to optimize energy conversion efﬁciency.Students will be required to conduct a research on the environmentalimpacts of the major current energy conversion systems.ME 0347 Fluid Mechanics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0241.Topics in this course include incompressible fluids at rest and in motion;Bernoulli's theorem and the principle of similarity flow through oriﬁces,nozzles, and pipes; flow through open channels; energy relationships asapplied to pipe lines, pumps, and turbines; acceleration of fluid masses;losses in fluid flow systems; fluid dynamics; the momentum theorem inturbomachinery; and introduction to compressible fluid flow. This courseemphasizes design solutions using computer analysis and synthesis. Thecourse includes a design project of a system that applies the principles offluid flow.ME 0348L Thermal and Fluids Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisites: ME 0342, ME 0347.This laboratory learning experience provides the opportunity to explorevarious components, such as the compressor, condenser, and evaporator,in a series of experiments using refrigeration equipment. Studentsinvestigate lift and drag in a wind tunnel, pressure losses in duct flow,and the Bernoulli principle. Also, students determine the efﬁciency of acentrifugal pump, plot PV diagrams for the Otto Cycle, and study a PeltonWheel Hydraulic Turbine. The course emphasizes statistical analysis, testplanning, data evaluation, and report writing.
ME 0349 Heat Transfer3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0347.This course covers one- and two-dimensional heat conduction, includingsolutions for ﬁnned surfaces and solutions for transient problems;convection heat transfer in laminar and turbulent flows; fundamentalradiation concepts; laws of thermal radiation; radiation exchangegeometrical factors and network methods;heat exchangers and electricalanalogies. The course emphasizes design solutions using computeranalysis and synthesis. In the lab, students investigate heat transfer inplane surfaces, enhanced heat transfer in extended surfaces, and heatexchanger effectiveness. This course includes a practical design projectof a system that applies the principles of heat transfer.ME 0350L Energy Transfer Lab1 CreditFee: $80 Engineering Lab FeeCorequisites: ME 0325, ME 0349.A laboratory experience for engineering students utilizing hands-onexperiments to explore energy transfer methods related to transmittedforces in vibrating systems, as well as thermal transfer gradients inmechanical, electrical, and electronic systems. Students use simulationand modeling software for many experiments, including conduction andconvection heat transfer processes. The course emphasizes statisticalanalysis, instrumentation, and report writing.ME 0353 Computational Fluid Dynamics3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0347.Introduction to computational methods used for the solution of advancedfluid dynamics problems.Emphasis on concepts in ﬁnite differencemethods as applied to various ordinary and partial differential modelequations in fluid mechanics, fundamentals of spatial discretization,numerical integration, and numerical linear algebra. A focus on theengineering and scientiﬁc computing environment. Other topics mayinclude waves, advanced numerical methods (like spectral, ﬁnite element,ﬁnite volume), non-uniform grids, turbulence modeling, and methodscomplex boundary conditions.ME 0354 Heat and Mass Transfer3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0349.This course covers the concepts of conduction, convection, and radiationheat transfer as well as mass transfer. Boiling and condensation;design and performance of selected thermal systems (including heatexchangers); and laminar and turbulent flows as related to forced andfree convection are all studied. Mathematical modeling of engineeringsystems using modern analytical and computational solution methodsare also covered.ME 0362 Turbomachinery3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0347.The theoretical basis and the fundamentals of modern turbomachineryfor aerospace (helicopter, aircraft) and power generation (marine,industrial) applications are studied. Brayton engine cycle analysis andperformance improvement are reviewed. Applications of the principlesof fluid mechanics and thermodynamics to the design of turbines andcompressors are examined, as well as component analysis and velocitydiagram for axial compressors, centrifugal compressors and axialturbines. Discussion of combustion and environmental emissions. Thiscourse carries a design/research projectME 0372 Applications of Theory of Elasticity3 CreditsPrerequisite: ME 0308.This course covers theory of elasticity (stress, strain, and generalizedHooke's law), strain energy methods (Castigliano's theorem), thin shellsof revolution (equilibrium equations, pressure vessels), thin plates(rectangular and circular plates, moment-curvature relations), beams ofelastic foundations and buckling.ME 0382 Independent Study: Advanced Mechanical Project1-3 CreditsPrerequisite: Completion of non-elective mechanical engineering coursesand at least one major elective.During this design course emphasizing individual creativity, students(working with a faculty mentor) develop project objectives andperformance speciﬁcations. At review meetings, students presentprogress on the project including analytic and experimental results todate. A ﬁnal report and presentation demonstrates the accomplishmentsand signiﬁcant conclusions. Faculty involvement creates a realisticengineering development environment. Students may take this course asindependent study once the prerequisites have been met. Enrollment bydepartmental approval only.ME 0400 Feedback and Control Systems3 CreditsThis course emphasizes analysis and synthesis of closed loopcontrol systems using both classical and state-space approacheswith an emphasis on electro-mechanical systems. The mathematicalrequirements include the Laplace transform methods of solvingdifferential equations, matrix algebra and basic complex variables.The discussion of classical control system design includes themodeling of dynamic systems, block diagram representation, timeand frequency domain methods, transient and steady state response,stability criteria, controller action [Proportional (P), proportional andintegral (PI), Proportional, integral and derivative (PID) and pseudo-derivatives feedback], root locus methods, the methods of Nyquistand Bode and dynamics compensation techniques. The discussion ofstate-space methods includes formulation and solution (analytical andcomputer-based) of the state equations and pole-placement design. Thecourse integrates the use of computer-aided analysis and design tools(MATLAB) so as to ensure relevance to the design of real world controlledelectro-mechanical systems using case studies and applications toelectrical and mechanical systems. Includes lab (hardware based)exercises.ME 0405 Design of Mechatronics Systems3 CreditsThis course covers development of mechatronics theory and applicationsto systems dependent upon the integration of mechanical, electricaland computer engineering. Students assemble hardware componentsto create a product design that fulﬁlls a speciﬁed task in a mechatronicssystem. Students develop design skills in mechanisms, electrical devices,and software to create, test, and verify system function. Sessions includelab projects. Students will be challenged to develop a publication-worthywhite paper as a ﬁnal deliverable along with their ﬁnal project.ME 0410 Vibration Analysis3 CreditsFundamental laws of mechanics. Free and forced vibration of discretesingle and multi-degree- of-freedom systems. Periodic and harmonicmotion, viscous damping, and measures of energy dissipation. Modalanalysis for linear systems. Computational methods in vibration analysis.Natural frequencies and mode shapes. Analytical dynamics and Lagrangeequation. Longitudinal, torsional, and flexural vibration of continuouselastic systems, (strings, rods, beams). Energy methods. Approximatemethods for distributed parameter systems. Dynamic response bydirect numerical integration methods. ANSYS modeling will be covered.Students are required to conduct an independent research on one of thenew and emerging energy sources, write a research report and make aclass presentation on their research.
ME 0410L Product Manufacturing Lab1 CreditThis course is designed to be an introductory course in the ProductManufacturing ﬁeld. The course provides theoretical concepts aswell as the development of the knowledge and skills required in CNCprogramming, machine setup and operation, 3D printing, laser, manualmachining and metrology. The laboratory portion emphasizes practicalapplication of CNC machine tools, 3D printing, and manual machining,which involve set-ups and procedures for operation.ME 0411 Theory and Applications of Robot Kinematics3 CreditsTopics in advanced kinematics include introduction to basic conceptsand deﬁnitions related to kinematics, commonly used links and joints,kinematic analysis of mechanisms, introduction to robotic mechanisms,homogeneous transformations, Euler angles, Denavit-Hartenbergrepresentation of forward kinematics of robots, inverse kinematicssolution of robots, degeneracy and dexterity, and differential motion andvelocity relations. Industrial application of kinematics will also be coveredand the course will include a laboratory or project component.ME 0412 Advanced Dynamics3 CreditsThe topics in the area of dynamics include degrees of freedom,generalized coordinates, constraints, physics of failure, flexures,and optomechanics. The course will focus on practical applicationsof advanced dynamics, including linkages, cams, and kinematicsmechanisms, as well as computer applications and project design.Students will be challenged to develop a publication-worthy white paperas a ﬁnal deliverable along with their ﬁnal project.ME 0415 Engineering Applications of Numerical Methods3 CreditsThis course provides students with the theoretical basis to proceed infuture studies. Topics include root-ﬁnding, interpolation, linear algebraicsystems, numerical integration, numerical solution of ordinary andpartial differential equations, modeling, simulation, initial boundary valueproblems, and two point boundary value problems.ME 0423 Thermal Management of Microdevices3 CreditsThis course addresses the thermal design in electronic assemblies whichincludes thermal characteristics, heat transfer mechanisms and thermalfailure modes. Thermal design of electronic devices enables engineers toprevent heat-related failures, increase the life expectancy of the system,and reduce emitted noise and energy consumption. This course providesthe required knowledge of heat transfer for such analysis and variousoptions available for thermal management of electronics. This coursealso presents advanced methods of removing heat from electroniccircuits, including heat pipes, liquid immersion and forced convection.ME 0424 Micro and Nano Manufacturing3 CreditsThis course will introduce students to the latest advancements in microand nano manufacturing. The course will enable students to becomefamiliar with advanced manufacturing techniques in light of the globalemphasis on micro and nano manufacturing. Topics to be coveredinclude lithography, mechanical micromachining, laser fabrication,polymers and nanocomposites, and nano imprinting. The importanttopics of metrology and process control at the micro and nano scale willalso be discussed. Students will conduct a class project integrating thedifferent processes for an application in electromechanical or biomedicalﬁeld. A lab component is also present where students get a hands-onexperience with material processing and characterization tools.ME 0427 Applications of Fracture Mechanics in EngineeringDesign3 CreditsThis course covers fracture mechanics concepts for design, materialsselection, and failure analysis. The fundamental principles of fractureparameters and criteria, stress ﬁeld at the tip of a crack, fracturetoughness, thickness effect, plastic zone concept, and crack growthunder cyclic loading and aggressive environment will be presented.Emphasis will be placed on the practical applications of fracturemechanics by incorporation of design problems and laboratorydemonstrations in the course. Emphasis will be placed on the practicalapplications of fracture mechanics by incorporation of a failureinvestigation study where the students utilize the skills developed withthe course to root cause a real world failure. Taking a holistic approacheach student will have their own case study and learn to incorporatefracture mechanics, material science, mechanics of materials, computersimulation and manufacturing techniques and knowledge into theirproject. Students select a related research topic, identify a technicalpaper to review and give a class presentation.ME 0428 Computational Fluid Dynamics3 CreditsIntroduction to computational methods used for the solutionsof advanced fluid dynamics problems. Emphasis on concepts inﬁnite difference methods as applied to various ordinary and partialdifferential model. Equations in fluid mechanics, fundamentals of spatialdiscretization, numerical integration, and numerical linear algebra. Afocus on the engineering and scientiﬁc computing environment. Othertopics may include waves, advanced numerical methods (like spectral,ﬁnite element, ﬁnite volume), non-uniform grids, turbulence modeling,and methods complex boundary conditions. Students select a relatedresearch topic, identify a technical paper to review and give a classpresentation.ME 0444 Mechanics of Composite Materials3 CreditsWhile the use of man-made composites have existed for centuriesfor practical applications, engineered composite materials are ﬁndingincreasing use in many high technology applications such as aerospace,electronics, sporting goods, and structural components for highstability systems. This course is designed to provide a comprehensiveunderstanding of classiﬁcation, processing, properties, selection andfailure of polymer, metal and ceramic based composite materials.Students select a related research topic, identify a technical paper toreview and give a class presentation.ME 0451 Energy Conversion3 CreditsThis course covers selected topics in energy conversion, includingfuels used in energy conversion, solar energy, gas turbine engines andapplications, internal combustion engines, battery power, heat pumps,classic and novel power and refrigeration cycles, system analysis, systemeconomics, and environmental considerations. The course includescomputer simulation of power plant performance to optimize energyconversion efﬁciency. A research report and class presentation of anindependent research on one of the emerging sources of energy is anessential part of this course.ME 0452 Heat and Mass Transfer3 CreditsThis course covers the basic concepts of conduction, convection,and radiation heat transfer. Boiling and condensation, design andperformance of selected thermal systems (including heat exchangers),and laminar and turbulent flows as related to forced and free convectionare all studied. Mathematical modeling of engineering systems usingmodern analytical and computational solution methods are also covered.Students are required to conduct an independent research on one of thenew and emerging energy sources, write a research report and make aclass presentation on their research.
ME 0453 Turbomachinery3 CreditsTheory and fundamentals of modern turbomachinery for aerospace(helicopter, aircraft) and power generation (marine, industrial)applications. Brayton engine cycle analysis and performanceimprovement are examined. Applications of the principles of fluidmechanics and thermodynamics to the design of turbines andcompressors are discussed; analysis and velocity diagram for axialcompressors, centrifugal compressors and axial turbines. Discussionof combustion and environmental emissions is included. Students arerequired to conduct an independent research on one of the new andemerging energy sources, write a research report and make a classpresentation on their research.ME 0470 Applications of Finite Element Analysis3 CreditsThis course examines applications of ﬁnite element analysis in modernengineering including structural analysis, fluid flow, heat transfer,and dynamics. Finite element formulations covering two and threedimensional elements as well as energy methods are developed.Students develop techniques for application of ﬁnite element method instructural design, dynamic system response, fluid and thermal analyses.Application of methodology to fluid flow is presented. Students solveexample and design problems manually and using modern ﬁnite-elementanalysis software, ANSYS and FLUENT. Students are required to conductan independent research on one of the new and emerging energy sources,write a research report and make a class presentation on their research.ME 0472 Applications of Theory of Elasticity3 CreditsThis course covers theory of elasticity (stress, strain, and generalizedHooke's law), strain energy methods (Castigliano's theorem), thin shellsof revolution (equilibrium equations, pressure vessels), thin plates(rectangular and circular plates, moment-curvature relations), beams ofelastic foundations and buckling. Students are required to conduct anindependent research on one of the new and emerging energy sources,write a research report and make a class presentation on their research.ME 0495 Independent Study3 CreditsA well-planned program of individual study under the supervision of thefaculty member.ME 0550 Thesis I3 CreditsThe master's thesis is intended to be a test of the student's ability toformulate a problem, solve it, and communicate the results. The thesis issupervised on an individual basis by a faculty member. A thesis involvesthe ability to gather information, examine it critically, think creatively,organize effectively, and write convincingly; it is a project that permits thestudent to demonstrate skills that are basic to both academic and work inindustry. The student must also submit a paper for possible inclusion in arefereed journal appropriate to the topic.ME 0551 Thesis II3 CreditsThe master's thesis is intended to be a test of the student's ability toformulate a problem, solve it, and communicate the results. The thesis issupervised on an individual basis by a faculty member. A thesis involvesthe ability to gather information, examine it critically, think creatively,organize effectively, and write convincingly; it is a project that permits thestudent to demonstrate skills that are basic to both academic and work inindustry. The student must also submit a paper for possible inclusion in arefereed journal appropriate to the topic.Music (MU)MU 0060 Private Lessons: Bass1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0061 Private Lessons: Bass2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0062 Private Lessons: Bassoon1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0063 Private Lessons: Bassoon2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0064 Private Lessons: Cello1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0065 Private Lessons: Cello2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0066 Private Lessons: Clarinet1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0067 Private Lessons: Clarinet2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0068 Private Lessons: Flute1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0069 Private Lessons: Flute2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0070 Private Lessons: Guitar1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0071 Private Lessons: Guitar2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0072 Private Lessons: Harp1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0073 Private Lessons: Harp2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0074 Private Lessons: Oboe1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0075 Private Lessons: Oboe2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0078 Private Lessons: Percussion1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0079 Private Lessons: Percussion2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0080 Private Lessons: Piano1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0081 Private Lessons: Piano2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0082 Private Lessons: Popular Piano1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0083 Private Lessons: Popular Piano2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0084 Private Lessons: Saxophone1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0085 Private Lessons: Saxophone2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0086 Private Lessons: Trombone1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0087 Private Lessons: Trombone2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0088 Private Lessons: Violin1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson Fee
MU 0089 Private Lessons: Violin2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0090 Private Lessons: Viola1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0091 Private Lessons: Viola2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0092 Private Lessons: Voice1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0093 Private Lessons: Voice2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0094 Private Lessons: Trumpet1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0095 Private Lessons: Trumpet2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0096 Private Lessons: Beginning Piano1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0097 Private Lessons: Beginning Piano2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0098 Private Lessons: Jazz/Pop Piano1 CreditFee: $500 Music Lesson FeeMU 0099 Private Lessons: Jazz/Pop Piano2 CreditsFee: $575 Music Lesson FeeMU 0101 The History of Jazz3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities,BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate,EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course traces the development of American jazz from its originsin African-American musical traditions. Students examine the rootsof jazz in ragtime, blues, work songs, and march music and study thedevelopment of different jazz styles such as Dixieland in the '20s, swingin the '30s, bop in the '40s, and continuing to the present. The courseemphasizes the connection between historical periods and the music ofjazz: America's original art music.MU 0102 History and Development of Rock3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course surveys the musical and social trends that resulted in theemergence of rock and roll as an important musical and cultural force inAmerica. The course traces the roots of rock, blues, and country styles,showing how they merged with popular music. Students examine periodsfrom the 1950s to the present, along with Elvis Presley, Chuck Berry, LittleRichard, the Beatles, the British invasion, folk music, Bob Dylan, jazz andart rock, Jimi Hendrix, the west coast movement, and the music industry.Students learn to understand, discuss, and differentiate between stylisticperiods and their historical relevance to American culture.MU 0103 History of Music: 400-17003 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFrom the humble beginnings of prayer set to chant, through the goldenage of polyphony, to the masters of the baroque, this course surveysthe origin of western art music. Students learn the basic elements ofmusic and chart the evolution of these elements through the centuries.Students also learn about the cultural and intellectual environment thatgave birth to different music genres and styles.MU 0104 History of Music: 1700-19643 CreditsAttributes: MUEM European Music, VPCH Visual and Performing ArtsCore: History CourseThis course explores the ways in which composers manipulated musicallanguage to meet the growing demands of the middle class. Afterlearning the basic elements of music, students explore the world of theEnlightenment and Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. In the romantic period,the course explores the interaction of all the arts and the influence ofpolitics and economics on compositional style. With the dawn of the 20thcentury, the course explores what "modern" means, learns about attemptsto expand and replace musical language, and studies the impact ofAmerican culture on music.MU 0111 The Life and Music of Gershwin, Ellington, and Porter3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, JST Judaic Studies Minor, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course focuses on the life and music of three of America's greatestcomposers, Duke Ellington, George Gershwin, and Cole Porter. Thesethree composers deﬁned American music, both through popular songand serious music. Their work was heard on radio, in dance halls, onBroadway, in ﬁlms, and at concert halls, providing an important contextfor understanding mid-20th century America. This course studies the lifeand music of these composers through readings, movies, listening, andclass discussion.MU 0112 Music of Black Americans3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities,BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate,EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis musical and historical survey of African-American music andits important contributions to American culture examines Africanheritage, slave songs, and the colonial era, followed by the role of African-Americans in the music and culture of the Revolutionary and Civil Warperiods. Students examine the evolution of spirituals, minstrel songs, andragtime as they relate to dance forms; the role of African-Americans asperformers and composers in classical music and music of the theatre;and the blues as it evolves into jazz, soul, reggae, funk, disco, and rap.This course takes a look at racism and issues of gender in America,and how musicians of diverse backgrounds have collaborated andcontributed to the evolution of American music despite prejudice andadversity.MU 0120 The History of American Song3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual andPerforming Arts Core: History CourseThis course examines the history of our most popular form of Americanmusic - the song. It explores the origins of song, the impact ofimmigrants, war, women, and political agendas on the development ofthis genre, as well as popular American songwriters, singers, and styles.Through critical analysis, we will see the patterns that shaped the musicof today.
MU 0122 World Music History and Ensemble3 CreditsAttributes: BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC BlackStudies Component Course, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDVEducational Studies Diversity, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, VPCH Visualand Performing Arts Core: History Course, WDIV World DiversityThe course includes a survey and hands-on instrumental experimentationwith world music including African, Brazilian, African-American, NativeAmerican, Latin American, Indian, and South Asian styles. Studentsattend a formal lecture and a practice or performance session eachweek. During the latter session, students learn to play (primarily African)percussion instruments, coming to view them as the ﬁrst building blocksof much larger units of ethnic, folk, traditional, or popular ensembles. Thecourse raises student awareness of corresponding songs and traditions;links history, tradition, music, and culture; and introduces students to thecontribution of a wide range of cultures to the music world and to thewidespread belief that music is a universal language. Students performas a class or an ensemble on set show-and-tell occasions that may beopen to invited guests and/or the University community. No previousmusical experience is required.MU 0124 Bach and Beethoven3 CreditsAttributes: GMEL German Major or Minor Course, GMEN German CourseTaught in English, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course examines the lives and music of two masters. The ﬁrst halfof the course explores the great secular and religious music of JohannSebastian Bach, the last great exponent of baroque style. The second halfof the course investigates the life and works of Ludwig von Beethoven,the composer who, more than any other, represents the struggle forartistic truth.MU 0126 History of Choral Music3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseFrom Palestrina's masses to Verdi's Requiem, this course explores thehistory of music through choral music. The composers themselvesoften considered these masterpieces to be the culmination of theircompositional development and work. A basic ability to read music ishelpful.MU 0132 Critical Issues in American Popular Music: Blues to HipHop3 CreditsAttributes: ASVP American Studies: Visual and Performing Arts, BSAHBlack Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC Black Studies ComponentCourse, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core:History CourseThis course provides an in-depth look at the important musical, social,and racial issues in American popular music, from the media exploitationof the blues in the 1920s through current issues in hip hop. Subject areaswill include blues and its origins, jazz and modernism, the obstacles ofrace in music, the death of rhythm and blues, rock's evolution in the '50s,rap and hip hop culture, and issues in both postmodernism and perverseas seen by many music and art critics.MU 0150 Music Theory and Composition I3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course introduces students to the basic concepts of musictheory and beginning compositional skills. Starting with the notationof pitch and rhythm, the course investigates the major/minor keysystem, intervals, chord construction, melody writing, and rudimentaryharmonization. No background in music is expected.MU 0155 Popular Music Theory and Composition3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course, designed for majors and minors in jazz performance, givesstudents a working knowledge of jazz and pop harmony. Students attainkeyboard proﬁciency through an emphasis on ear-training, voicings,tritone substitutions, and improvisation theory; this proﬁciency can beused on other instruments. Students learn all upper-structure chordsin all keys as well as ways to improvise on various chord structures.Students should be able to play through lead sheet material withreasonable proﬁciency using jazz voicings and voice-leading techniques.Basic knowledge of the keyboard is recommended, but the course is opento all instrumentalists and vocalists. Enrollment by permission of theinstructor only.MU 0156 Introduction to Music Technology: History and Practice3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course provides students with an introduction to the use of musicalinstrument digital interface and its various formats. Participants studyprinciples of MIDI, the use of computers in music, and music softwareas it applies to composition, arranging, sequencing, and music notation,examining how these formats enhance the performance of musicand music production. Students learn the technology used in popmusic, soundtracks, and commercial music. This course requires abasic knowledge of music and is open to students with some musicalbackground.MU 0157 Introduction to the Music Industry3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course introduces students to the various aspects of the musicindustry. Students discuss the history and process behind the creation,manufacture, and distribution of prerecorded music. The course coversthe earliest record companies, changes in the technology, and thegrowing awareness and sophistication of the consumer and the artists,as well as the function of managers, attorneys, musicians, and agents inthe music industry.MU 0200 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: One introductory or 100-level music class.Students will undertake an in-depth study of a speciﬁc problem, period,composer, performer, or style of performing, creating, or responding tomusic. The course will be conducted by a leading scholar/practitionerin the ﬁeld. The course may be repeated with permission of the programdirector.MU 0200D Special Topics: Audio Post Production: Film, Television, andRadio3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThe focus of this course is an artistic and technical introduction toAudio Post-Production: the industry, the tools, and the processes thatproduce high-quality audio mixes for radio and visuals for broadcast,cinema, and internet-based media. The course will teach the technicalprocesses to allow students to use the software and hardware of audioproduction, but also to provide important background information onthe fundamentals of sound and the technology they are utilizing. Thisincludes intensive analysis of these fundamentals fas they apply to theindustry, the historical and scientiﬁc context of sound, and the criticallistening skills needed to engage in software use.
MU 0201 Hip-Hop and Its Antecedants3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, MUAM American Music,MUHI Music History, UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual and PerformingArts Core: History CourseThis class explores the musical, cultural, political and aestheticfoundations of hip-hop. We will trace the corporeal, visual, spokenword, literary and musical antecedents to and manifestations of hip-hop in American cultural. Students will investigate speciﬁc blackcultural practices that have given rise to its various idioms. Studentscreate material culture related to each thematic section of the course.Scheduled work in performance studio helps students understand howhip-hop is created and assessed. We will analyze the effects of corporateAmerica and examine the images and ideas presented by an industrydriven by proﬁt. Are we really in a post-racial society? How does hop-hophelp us understand race, class, gender, power, and oppression? Artistsstudied will not be those with the highest number of albums sold, butthose with signiﬁcant musical or lyrical content and impact on hip-hop asa whole.MU 0202 Digital Audio Workstation3 CreditsPrerequisites: FTM 0011, FTM 0130; or MU 0150 or MU 0156.This course will provide the student with an in-depth knowledge of thepractical application of the Digital Audio Workstation (DAW). This courseis primarily designed for students interested in audio editing as it appliesto producing recordings, creating sound effects, and soundtrack designfor ﬁlm/TV/radio. Creating samples, recording techniques, waveformmanipulation, mixing, and the role of the Digital Audio Workstation inthe overall process of sound design will be explored. Students will beproﬁcient at using Logic Pro audio software to manipulate MIDI andaudio. Students will learn how to record live sound effects from theenvironment and manipulate the recordings to create Foley sound effects,and apply them to a ﬁlm segment. Students will learn to mix and master asegment of multi-track audio.MU 0215 American Musical Theatre: History and Practice3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core:History CoursePrerequisite: One Music or Theatre course.Musical theatre is a complex genre that has developed in tandem withthe developing American nation. It is a serious art form that, in its ﬁnestiterations, represents total works of art unique in and of themselves.This course expands students' knowledge of the range and diversityof the genre as codiﬁed in the middle 20th century by Rodgers andHammerstein and their imitators. Embedded in great musical theatrepieces is the essence of what it means to be an American living in theUnited States at a particular time in history.MU 0242 Music of the Classical Era3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseDuring the classical era (about 1750 to 1830), music shifted from anaristocratic concern to the favorite popular art of the middle class.The course examines the lives and music of the three most importantcomposers of this period: Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven.MU 0243 19th Century Romanticism in Music3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, ITEN Italian Course Taughtin English, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis comprehensive survey of 19th-century romanticism in musicconsiders the music of Beethoven, Chopin, Verdi, and Wagner, amongothers. The music of the romantic era contains some of the richestmasterpieces in music history. The course considers the relationshipbetween music and the other arts.MU 0244 Music of the 20th Century3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis introduction to the mainstreams of music of our time begins withDebussy, Ravel, and the French moderns. After investigating the music ofStravinsky, Bartók, and other European composers, the course concludeswith such modern trends as electronic music, ﬁlm music, jazz, andpopular music.MU 0245 Survey of Film Music: Hearing the Movies3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CoursePrerequisite: FTM 0010 or MU 0103 or MU 0104.This course provides an overview of ﬁlm music from 1900 to today.Students investigate the deﬁning characteristics of the major historicalperiods of ﬁlm music; explore the social and historical events that shapedthe industry; learn to actively listen to a score; and discuss salientfeatures of a given score. The object in this course is to develop skillsin analyzing the sound track, music's role in the sound track, and therelation of sound track and image track on small-scale and large-scale(narrative) levels. The course develops critical listening and viewing skillsas well as a ﬁlm-music historical survey.MU 0250 Music Theory and Composition II3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: MU 0150.In this continuation of MU 0150, students build a theoretical andcompositional foundation by studying 7th chords, part-writing, harmonicprogressions, and chromatic harmony. In addition, students composeoriginal melodies and learn how to harmonize them, and undertakesimple analysis projects to further understand how music is put together.MU 0255 Instrumental Ensembles1 CreditPrerequisite: Orchestra or symphonic band performance experience.This ensemble helps instrumental musicians develop their skillsfurther through public concert performances. Students learn ensembleperformance ethics and stylistic interpretation, as well as performingpieces from a wide variety of genres and time periods. This course maybe taken repeatedly.MU 0256 Jazz Ensemble1 CreditPrerequisites: Instrumental or vocal performance experience; selectionthrough audition.Jazz Ensemble is open to musicians who wish to develop their skillsin jazz performance. Students rehearse and receive instruction inperforming and improvising in different styles of jazz, from swing tofusion. This course may be taken repeatedly.MU 0300 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: MUHI Music History, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core:History CourseBy arrangement with music faculty, students work independently onspecial topics within the ﬁeld of music. Open to music majors and minorsonly. Enrollment by permission only.MU 0301 Independent Study in Music Theory1-3 CreditsAttributes: MUAP Applied Music, VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core:Applied CourseBy arrangement with music faculty, students continue the work ofMU 0250 with an advanced study of music theory and composition. Thiscourse may be taken more than once. Open to music majors and minorsonly. Enrollment by permission only.
MU 0305 Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseInternships are available in a number of organizations. Students receivesemester credit in exchange for working a minimum of 10 hours perweek. Students may count no more than six credits towards a major, andno more than towards a minor. Open to music majors and minors only.Enrollment by permission only.MU 0306 Performing Arts Administration Principles andPractices3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisites: Two courses in music or theatre.This course explores the fundamental principles associated with not-for-proﬁt performing arts organizations. This course is for all arts students,as the study of arts administration core principles sets a foundationof essential knowledge vital for employment within a non-proﬁt artsorganization. Such training also is for practicing artists and those withfor-proﬁt intentions. Students will come away with knowledge and skills,as well as a strong self-awareness of their leadership and managementcapacities. Previously VPA 0306.MU 0310 Senior Capstone Project I3 CreditsAttributes: MUHI Music History, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core:History CourseThe capstone project provides opportunities for majors to work at a veryhigh level, reflecting their expertise and ongoing research. Enrollment bypermission only.MU 0311 Senior Capstone Project II3 CreditsAttributes: MUAP Applied Music, VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core:Applied CourseThe capstone project provides opportunities for majors to work at a veryhigh level, reflecting their expertise and ongoing research. Enrollment bypermission only.Nursing (NS)NS 0110 Introduction to Professional Nursing3 CreditsThis course serves as a foundation to the development of the nurse as aprofessional person. Central to this is the awareness and acceptance ofself. The process of clinical reasoning as an approach to the planning anddelivery of nursing care to individuals, families, groups and communitiesis introduced. Discussion of nursing's history and accomplishmentsserves as the cornerstone for professional behaviors, including:scholarship, communication, collaboration, personal responsibility,accountability, integration of evidence based practice and peer- and self-evaluation. 42 theory hours.NS 0112 Healthcare Delivery Systems3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and EthicsThe health care delivery system is explored from a historical, economic,political, and health information technology perspective. Emphasisis given to social, ethical, and legal aspects of the current systemthat remain unresolved, such as access to care, health disparities,and equity. The history and progression of healthcare reform and itsinfluence on our current healthcare system performance will be analyzed.Global health issues and their impact on the delivery of health careservices are discussed, along with consumer use of complementary andalternative therapies. This course is designed to give an inter-professionalperspective to students interested in health care from any ﬁeld of study.42 theory hours.NS 0250 Dimensions of Professional Nursing3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: Connecticut RN license or academic transcript andapproval of advisor.This course is designed to facilitate career advancement of the registerednurse to the baccalaureate level. This is the ﬁrst course in the RN/BSN completion program. Consideration of values, culture, philosophyand personal goals are examined as part of the student's professionaldevelopment. Communication, clinical reasoning and conflict resolutiontechniques will be utilized to foster positive inter-professional teams.Students will demonstrate an evidence based approach to analyzecurrent healthcare issues including social justice and diversity inprofessional practice. 42 theory hours.NS 0252 Health Assessment for Registered Nurses3 CreditsPrerequisite: Connecticut RN license.This course enhances knowledge and skills required to perform healthassessments for patients throughout the lifespan. Health assessmentfocuses not only on physiological components, but also on the moreholistic cultural, spiritual, developmental, nutritional, genetic, andmental status assessments. Clinical reasoning, communication anddocumentation using electronic medical records are also essentialcomponents of this course. Students expand their skills in interviewingwhile learning how to perform health histories, and complete physicalexaminations through course lectures, discussions, simulations, andsupervised and individual practice in classroom and laboratory modules.28 theory, 28 lab hours.NS 0270 Health Assessment4 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0107, BI 0108, CH 0084, NS 0110.This course introduces students to the knowledge and skills required toperform health assessments for patients throughout the lifespan. Healthassessment focuses not only on physiological components, but also onthe more holistic cultural, spiritual, developmental, nutritional, genetic,and mental status assessments. Clinical reasoning, communicationand documentation using electronic medical records are also essentialcomponents of this course. Students expand their skills in interviewingwhile learning how to perform health histories, and complete physicalexaminations through course lectures, discussions, simulations, andsupervised and individual practice in classroom and laboratory modules.28 theory hours, 56 lab hours.NS 0270L Health Assessment Lab0 CreditsNS 0272 Geriatric Nursing4 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0151*, NS 0110, NS 0112, NS 0270*, PY 0111*.This course focuses on evidence-based nursing care of older adultsliving in long-term care settings. Normal physiological changes of agingand related assessment skills will be incorporated and evaluated usingstandardized assessment tools. Management of common geriatric careproblems will be emphasized. Particular focus will be placed on theethical and spiritual concerns of vulnerable older adult populations.Students will reflect upon how the nursing role merges with life goals,philosophy and meaning to develop professional behaviors consistentwith these aspects of life. 42 theory hours, 42 clinical hours. (*indicatesconcurrency allowed)NS 0272C Geriatric Nursing Clinical0 Credits
NS 0301 Health and Wellness3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0270, NS 0272*.This course explores factors that influence health and wellnessthroughout the lifespan. Epidemiology and evidence based practiceprovide a framework for the assessment of risk factors. How peoplemake health-related decisions, what risks threaten their health, andreasons for adopting particular lifestyles are examined. Key elementsconsidered essential to providing culturally competent care are reviewed,in addition to increasing awareness about health and healthcaredisparities. Social determinants of health, communication, and otherwellness concepts are explored. 42 theory hours. (*indicates concurrencyallowed)NS 0301C Health and Wellness Clinical0 CreditsNS 0303 Basic Pathophysiology and Pharmacology3 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0107, BI 0108, CH 0084.This course focuses on the study of physiological and biological lifeprocesses with a focus on deviations from normal, including exemplarcases. Manifestations of disease and alterations in all body systems arediscussed. Pharmacologic therapies commonly used to manage diseaseare presented, including content on the recognition of side effects,adverse effects, allergy, and overdose. 42 theory hours.NS 0305 Mental Health Nursing4 CreditsPrerequisites: BI 0151*, NS 0110, NS 0112, NS 0270*, NS 0303*, PY 0111.The focus of this course is the nursing care of individuals with psychiatricdisorders. A holistic approach based on theories of human behaviorand personality as well as neurobiological, developmental, trauma-informed, and recovery-oriented models are used to plan and implementcare in a variety of settings. Factors that may contribute to an individualdeveloping a psychiatric disorder are discussed and ethical, legal andcultural issues are considered when planning care. The developmentof a therapeutic nurse-patient relationship and use of communicationtechniques to promote healing are emphasized. 42 theory hours, 42clinical hours. (*indicates concurrency allowed)NS 0305C Mental Health Nursing Clinical0 CreditsNS 0307 Fundamentals of Nursing Care4 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0016 or higher, NS 0270.In this course, evidence based practice is used as a guide for studentsto learn how to provide safe and effective patient care across thelifespan. In the laboratory setting, students perform basic to advancedpsychomotor skills related to nursing care. Students also learn toeffectively use an electronic health record to document clinical ﬁndingsand care. 28 theory hours, 56 lab hours.NS 0307L Fundamentals of Nursing Care Lab0 CreditsNS 0310 Foundations of Research for Evidence Based Practice3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0017 or MA 0217.This course provides an introduction to the research process andits application to scholarship in clinical practice. Students learn tobe consumers of research through a review of the literature, critiqueof research, and identiﬁcation of methods appropriate to studyspeciﬁc practice-related problems. An emphasis is placed on clinicalreasoning and writing skills. Consideration is given to ethical, economic,technological, and statistical dimensions. Application is made to clinicalresearch and evidence-based practice. 42 theory hours.NS 0312 Medical Surgical Nursing I5 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0272, NS 0301*, NS 0303*, NS 0305*, NS 0307.This course introduces the student to illnesses common in the adultpopulation. The nursing process, theory, and evidence-based practice,are incorporated with clinical practice. An emphasis is placed onclinical reasoning and prioritizing patient care. Throughout the course,informatics is integrated as part of the documentation process for clinicalexperiences. 42 theory hours, 84 clinical hours. (*indicates concurrencyallowed)NS 0312C Medical Surgical Nursing I Clinical0 CreditsNS 0314 Maternal and Newborn Nursing4 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisites: NS 0301, NS 0303, NS 0305, NS 0307, NS 0312*.This course is designed to provide students with the opportunity toassist the patient and family to cope with changes in reproductiveand gynecological needs. The childbearing cycle including: pregnancy,childbirth, postpartum, lactation, care of the healthy newborn andperinatal complications, and theoretical models will be explored. Cultural,ethical and legal aspects of reproductive health across the lifespan willbe examined. Emphasis is on development of clinical reasoning andevidence based practice skills related to the nursing care of womenand childbearing families. 42 theory hours, 42 clinical hours. (*indicatesconcurrency allowed)NS 0314C Maternal and Newborn Nursing Clinical0 CreditsNS 0321 Professional Nursing Leadership3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0250* or NS 0325*; NS 0310*.This course immerses students in issues and concepts central toprofessional nursing. Political, social, and legal systems that affectthe image of nursing and influence its role deﬁnition are examined.Organizational dynamics and theories of leadership are considered, withcase studies and concurrent clinical experiences providing the foundationfor theory integration. Focus is placed on patient safety and qualityimprovement. 42 theory hours. (*indicates concurrency allowed)NS 0323 Pediatric Nursing4 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0301, NS 0303, NS 0305, NS 0307, NS 0312*.This course utilizes a family centered care approach to provide anunderstanding of the unique anatomical, physiologic, and developmentaldifferences among neonates, infants, children, adolescents, and youngadults. Social and cultural influences on children and their familiesare discussed in addition to assessment, genetics, health promotion,injury prevention, acute and chronic illness, and palliative and end-of-lifecare. Students are challenged to implement effective communicationtechniques, clinical reasoning skills, and evidenced based practices whenplanning holistic and safe care for children and their families in a widevariety of clinical settings. 42 theory hours, 42 clinical hours. (*indicatesconcurrency allowed)NS 0323C Pediatric Nursing Clinical0 CreditsNS 0325 Medical Surgical Nursing II5 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0310*, NS 0312.This course continues the study of nursing care for patients withillnesses common in the adult population. The theoretical framework ofthe nursing process is used to demonstrate effectiveness in planningand providing holistic evidence-based nursing care for diverse individualsand populations. Professional communication and interprofessionalcollaboration will be utilized in the delivery of patient-centered care. 42theory hours, 84 clinical hours. (*indicates concurrency allowed)NS 0325C Medical Surgical Nursing II Clinical0 Credits
NS 0330 Community, Public, and Global Health Nursing4 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: NS 0250* or NS 0325*.This course focuses on the care of people in their homes, in communities,and around the world. Principals of disease prevention, risk reduction,and health promotion are applied to diverse populations in the USA andworldwide. Students synthesize prior experience and learning with publichealth theory to provide collaborative, quality care across the lifespan.Using an ecological model, students engage in evidence based care forindividuals, families, groups, communities and populations. Global issuesrelated to the impact of social policies on healthcare and health equity,and needs of vulnerable populations are also examined. 42 theory hours,42 clinical hours. (*indicates concurrency allowed)NS 0330C Community, Public, and Global Health NursingClinical0 CreditsNS 0332 Transition to Professional Nursing4 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0314, NS 0321*, NS 0323, NS 0325, NS 0330*.This capstone course addresses provision of holistic, evidence basedcare to patients and families in a variety of health care settings. Studentshave the opportunity to work as a member of the health care teamwith an individual agency preceptor across the course. The focus is onfostering student growth in clinical reasoning, clinical reasoning andleadership development to promote autonomous professional nursingpractice within the clinical setting. Students develop a Capstone Projectbased on an identiﬁed learning need, for the patient, the patient's family,or for the nursing staff. 168 clinical hours. (*indicates concurrencyallowed)NS 0332C Transition to Professional Nursing Clinical0 CreditsNS 0340 Introduction to Global Public Health for Non-Nurses3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, HSTEHealth Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, LCEL LACS Minor: ElectiveThis course examines the social, economic and cultural factors impactingthe health of societies worldwide and identiﬁes key global healthconditions. Principals of disease prevention, risk reduction, and healthpromotion are applied to diverse populations in the USA and worldwide.Students will analyze current and emerging global health priorities,including emerging infectious diseases, poverty, obesity, health inequitiesand conflicts and crises. Global issues related to the impact of socialpolicies on healthcare and equity, and needs of vulnerable populationsare also examined.NS 0356 Transition Seminar for Professional Nursing3 CreditsPrerequisites: Connecticut RN license, NS 0310, NS 0321*, NS 0330*.This capstone course challenges the RN student to facilitate change ina clinical setting and positively influence patient outcomes. Studentsengage in collaborative interprofessional work with members ofthe healthcare team, and reflect on their own role as a professionalnurse. Through this course, students demonstrate evidence basedpractice, leadership, and clinical reasoning to make the transition to anautonomous professional level of practice. 42 theory hours. (*indicatesconcurrency allowed)NS 0360 Critical Care Nursing3 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0325.This elective course is an introduction to critical care nursing. Thefocus is placed on nursing diagnoses and evidence based practicein the care of the critically ill patient. Common issues such as ethicaldilemmas, psychosocial challenges, and symptom management arediscussed. Relevant nursing implications for the care of critically illpatients are addressed. Students also gain skills in advanced criticalcare, hemodynamic monitoring, and ventilator management. 42 theoryhours.NS 0399 Independent Study1-6 CreditsThrough individually designed projects or activities, students workwith a faculty member to study a speciﬁc area in depth. Enrollment bypermission only.NS 0521 Advanced Nursing Roles for Systems Leadership andImprovement4 CreditsThis course provides evidence-based knowledge and skills to maximizethe development of one's leadership role in evolving and challenginghealthcare systems. Discussion of advanced nursing roles will beexplored as vital members of the interprofessional team. Discussionand clinical application will focus on supporting students to developtheir ability to be collaborative,knowledge-based decision makers andfacilitators in the context of systems analysis and improvement. Theintent of this course is to explore the many facets of leadership andhealthcare improvement, and to examine strategies that will developnurse leaders to promote health, improve outcomes, and facilitate thedesign of high-performing systems that better serve patients, families,staff, and the organization. Students will develop proﬁciency in reflectivepractice, and evaluating and communicating data as a means to supportsystems improvement. 42 theory hours, 50 clinical hours.NS 0523 Quality Outcomes Management I4 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0521, NS 0601, NS 0604, NS 0605, NS 0608, NS 0614,NS 0640, NS 0641.Students in this course implement the interdisciplinary role of theNurse Leader. Emphasis is placed on identifying patient outcomes anddesigning systems to effectively manage these outcomes. Under thementorship of faculty and an agency preceptor, students implementclinical and teaching interventions to promote positive patient outcomes.Using leadership and management skills, students demonstrate clinicalcompetence through implementation of various aspects of the nursingleadership role. Methods of evaluating patient outcomes are exploredand implemented in clinical settings. Clinical conferences provide theframework for analyzing students' experiences in transitioning to thenursing leadership role. 28 theory hours; 100 clinical hours.NS 0524 Quality Outcomes Management II5 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0523.Students in this immersion experience implement the interdisciplinaryrole of the clinical nurse leader (CNL) to design systems for the effectivemanagement and evaluation of patient outcomes across the continuumof care. Under the mentorship of faculty and an agency preceptor,students complete, as their capstone project, an evidence-basedorganizational change that builds upon a clinical problem examined inprevious courses. Projects integrate best practices, principles of effectiveleadership and negotiation skills, use of information systems to evaluatepatient outcomes, and theories of organizational behavior in the design oftheir healthcare initiative. Clinical conferences provide a venue to analyzestudents' experiences in transitioning to the CNL role and to explore theirrole in creating the future of nursing. 250 clinical hours.
NS 0525 Master's Leadership Practicum3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0521, NS 0601, NS 0604, NS 0605, NS 0608, NS 0614,NS 0640, NS 0641.This practicum builds upon experiences gained in the IntegratedHealthcare Leadership Track to expand student opportunities to applynursing and healthcare improvement principles in a variety of settings.Students and faculty develop speciﬁc practicum sub-objectives that leadto increasing independence and accountability in practice. Studentscomplete a capstone project that reflects critical thinking, decision-making skills, and the ability to incorporate leadership process. Thecapstone is an analysis, synthesis, and utilization of knowledge fromprevious courses and experiences. Integrated Healthcare Practicumprojects speciﬁcally highlight the student's work in graduate electives,speciﬁc healthcare interests and clinical expertise. 150 clinical hours.NS 0598 Independent Study1-5 CreditsThrough individually designed projects or activities, students workwith a faculty member to study a speciﬁc area in depth. Enrollment bypermission of the instructor and dean only.NS 0601 Epidemiology and Biostatistics3 CreditsThis course presents epidemiologic principles and biostatisticalmethods for the presentation and analysis of health-related data.Data from a variety of sources will be used to draw inferences aboutthe health status of populations. Biostatistical techniques are usedto examine relationships among contributing factors for populationhealth in order to plan and evaluate health services and programs.Epidemiological methods for conducting studies will be discussed indetail, with an emphasis on group and population methods. Ethical issuesrelated to the application of biostatistics and data privacy, such as IRBrequirements, genomics, population genetics, clinical trials, and publichealth epidemiological studies are addressed. 42 theory hours.NS 0602 Healthcare Economics and Marketing3 CreditsThis course begins by applying microeconomic theory to the healthsector of the U.S. economy with a focus on ﬁnancial incentivesthroughout the healthcare system. Topics include the demand forhealthcare and health insurance, quality improvement, managed care andthe role of government. The U.S. experience is compared to healthcaresystems in other countries. Evidence-based skills include cost analysis,basic regression analysis, and business plan and budget development. 42theory hours.NS 0604 Advanced Health Assessment4 CreditsPrerequisite: Demonstrated competency in basic health assessment.This core course focuses on the holistic and comprehensive healthassessment of individuals and families from diverse populations. Itspurpose is to provide a foundation for primary prevention and healthpromotion through appropriate screening and risk assessment. Thecourse also includes history-taking, advanced physical examination, andthe introduction of laboratory assessment data. The course providesstudents with the opportunity to develop the comprehensive assessmentskills required for advanced nursing practice and advanced educationgeneralist roles. Case analysis is used to integrate critical thinking anddevelop differential diagnosis and treatment plans for clients acrossenvironments of care. All students participate in a 1-credit nursinglab, which provides an opportunity to develop comprehensive healthassessment skills at an advanced level. Clinical Exam fee for FNPstudents: Approximately $400. 28 theory hours, 56 lab hours.NS 0605 Advanced Healthcare Policy3 CreditsThis course focuses on the analysis of healthcare policy principles thatimpact practice-level and system-wide practice initiatives influencingquality of care delivery. Principles of healthcare ﬁnancing and its impacton healthcare policy development across all stakeholders are evaluated.Students gain skills in participating in institutional, local, state, federal,and international health policy, influencing policy makers involved inhealthcare. Current health policy is analyzed and new proposals debatedon issues ranging from access for the uninsured to palliative care, mentalhealth parity to long-term care reimbursement, and pay for performanceto entry level education for health professionals. Analysis and debateconsiders differences in nations and cultures. 42 theory hours.NS 0608 Research Methods for Evidenced-Based Practice3 CreditsThis course prepares advanced nurses to identify practice problems andcritique current research for relevance and application to practice. Anoverview of the philosophy of science and knowledge development inrelation to the development of nursing science and middle range theorieswill be presented. Basic concepts of qualitative and quantitative researchmethods will be examined. Using a reflective research approach, studentsidentify a practice problem to address a clinical question derived froma problem identiﬁed within a speciﬁc population or setting, and developa plan for implementing an evidence-based practice project. 42 theoryhours.NS 0609 Role Reflective Practice for MSN-DNP Students1 CreditThis online module course introduces reflective practice, portfoliodevelopmentand health policy for the doctoral of nursing practicestudent. The methods, processes, applications, beneﬁts, and limitationsof reflection and reflective practice are examined. Advanced practiceroles of expert clinician, collaborator, educator, teacher, consultant,advocate, researcher and manager are addressed through exemplars ofreflective praxis. Students identify and analyze a health policy issue anddevelop strategies to influence the political process toward change. 14theory hours.NS 0610 Advanced Nursing Roles and Reflective Practice3 CreditsThis course examines advanced nursing roles within a reflective practicemodel. The methods, processes, applications, beneﬁts, and limitations ofreflection and reflective practice are discussed. Advanced nursing rolesof expert clinician, collaborator, educator, teacher, consultant, advocate,researcher, and manager are addressed as exemplars of reflective praxis.An overview of the history of advanced nursing practice and reflectivepractice are discussed. In addition, practice issues are addressedincluding: the impaired professional, credentialing, regulation, legal,ethical, and cultural considerations. Communication, self-awareness,and partnership are promoted as integral to reflective advanced nursingpractice. 42 theory hours.
NS 0611 Population Health3 CreditsThis course presents the foundational skills required for DNP studentsto engage in a systematic approach to promoting population health.Evidence-based strategies inform how to identify and assess at-riskpopulations, implement both preventive and therapeutic interventions,and assess outcomes at the population level. Models of health promotionand illness prevention synthesize psychological, biophysical, cultural, andsocial dimensions to analyze population-based health outcomes. Socialdeterminants of health, Healthy People 2020, Institute for HealthcareImprovement (IHI), and Institute of Medicine 2012 Report: PrimaryCare and Public Health: Exploring Integration to Improve PopulationHealth documents are examined as a basis for moving beyond individualinterventions to promote change and health equity, and to supportpopulation health at institutional, local, state, and national levels. Theimpact of population health interventions are analyzed based on nationalinitiatives, trends and standards.NS 0612 Research Translation for Clinical Practice3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0601, NS 0608.This course focuses on the critical analysis, synthesis and applicationof qualitative and quantitative research methods for improvement ofoutcome indicators at the individual, family, system and populationlevel. Emphasis will be placed on current paradigms of scholarshipincluding Boyer's Model of Scholarly Nursing and the philosophy ofreflective practice, bridging the gap between research and practice, andoutcome assessment in advanced nursing practice. The evaluation ofinstruments to measure outcomes and methods of qualitative analysiswill be examined, and ethical and legal considerations will be addressedas they relate to the IRB process. The process of identifying potentialsources of grant funding and models of long-term program evaluationwill also be explored. Students will develop an IRB-ready project proposalbased upon a previously identiﬁed practice problem within their area ofspecialization. 42 theory hours.NS 0613 Finance and Quality Management in HealthcareOrganizations3 CreditsThis course focuses on ﬁnance and quality management in complexhealthcare systems. Students develop the ability to make sounddecisions and be change agents through the use of interprofessionalcollaboration and nursing consultation. As a member and leaderof interdisciplinary teams, safe, reliable, and cost-effective care forindividuals, cohorts and communities is designed and evaluated forbest practices. Principles of business, ﬁnance, risk management, andeconomics are examined in order to analyze, develop and implementpractice-level and system-wide practice initiatives. Leadership and theprocess of healthcare delivery from a systems perspective emphasizecontinuous process improvement to achieve quality outcomes. Effectivestrategies are evaluated for managing the ethical dilemmas inherent inpatient care and healthcare organizations. 42 theory hours.NS 0614 Information Technology for Healthcare Improvement3 CreditsThis course focuses on the evaluation and utilization of informationsystems and technology in order to support and improve patient careand health care systems, provide leadership within health care systemsand/or academic settings and impact quality improvement initiativeswith emphasis on the, macro and meso system levels. Discussionfocuses on the design, selection and utilization of information systemsas a means to evaluate programs of care, outcomes of care and caresystems. In addition, students will evaluate the use of informationsystems and technology resources using case studies to implementquality improvement initiatives, support practice and administrativedecision-making, and apply budgetary and productivity tools to supportand improve patient outcomes. Discussion of the legal, ethical andcultural issues as they relate to the use of information technology forimprovement of health care will be woven throughout the course. 42theory hours.NS 0615 Leadership and Interprofessional Collaboration3 CreditsThe intent of this course is to facilitate the development of collaborativeleadership skills for nurses to lead and improve outcomes and facilitatethe design of high performing clinical settings in a global society.Theories of leadership, management, and organizational behaviorsuch as vision, motivation, group dynamics, interpersonal relations,negotiation, organizational politics, career development, job design,communication, conflict management, and consultative processes areapplied to healthcare settings. Emphasis is on collaboration with inter-professional teams to improve outcomes for patients, families, staff, andhealthcare systems. 42 theory hours.NS 0640 Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology3 CreditsThe course focuses on the physiological processes central to biophysicaland psychopathologic alterations of function across the lifespan.Analysis of physiologic responses and implications of genetics andgenomics with illness are included. Interpretation of laboratory data forpatient management of acute and chronic disease is discussed. Studentsanalyze case studies of hospitalized and primary care patient scenarios.42 theory hours.NS 0641 Advanced Pharmacology3 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0640 or NS 0669.This course focuses on the pharmacotherapeutic principles of drugsmost commonly prescribed by advanced practice nurses and evaluatedby advanced education nurses. Emphasis is placed on the processof selecting appropriate agents for the patient's genetic proﬁle, andmonitoring adverse drug reactions or interactions with prescription, over-the-counter and alternative therapies. The role of the advanced practicenurse and advanced education nurse in educating and counselingpatients across the life span with regard to medication use and theunique affect on individuals is discussed. This course is designed to meetthe pharmacology requirement for APRN licensure in Connecticut. 42theory hours.
NS 0642 Adult Health I3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0604, NS 0640, NS 0641.This course focuses on the primary healthcare of the adolescent, adult,and older adult, particularly regarding the assessment, diagnosis,treatment, management, and evaluation of risk factors and problemscommonly encountered by the advanced practice nurse. Managementof both the physical and behavioral mental health issues common toadult acute and chronic health problems is included. The identiﬁcationand clinical management of abnormal ﬁndings generated from age-appropriate screenings, genectic history, and cultural assessmentsare addressed. Case studies depicting problems encountered fromadolescence through older adulthood are discussed. Emphasis isplaced on critical thinking and clinical judgment as they relate to thedevelopment of appropriate differential diagnoses. Additionally studentslearn nonpharmacological and pharmacological approaches to themanagement of problems in interprofessional teams, particiapte inshared decision making with patients/families regarding treatmentoptions, as well as manage target goal evaluation. Nationally acceptedevidence-based practice guidelines for frequent ICD code diagnoses andreview of treatment costs are analyzed. 42 theory hours.NS 0643 Adult Health II4 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0642.This course focuses on the primary healthcare of the adolescent, adult,and older adult, particularly regarding the assessment, diagnosis,treatment, management, and evaluation of risk factors and problemscommonly encountered by the advanced practice nurse. Managementof both the physical and behavioral mental health issues common toadult acute and chronic health problems is included. The identiﬁcationand clinical management of abnormal ﬁndings generated from age-appropriate screenings, genetic history, and cultural assessmentsare addressed. Case studies depicting problems encountered fromadolescence through older adulthood are discussed. Emphasis isplaced on critical thinking and clinical judgment as they relate to thedevelopment of appropriate differential diagnoses. Additionally, studentslearn nonpharmacological and pharmacological approaches to themanagement of problems in interprofessional teams, participate inshared decision making with patients/families regarding treatmentoptions as well as managed target goal evaluation. Nationally acceptedevidence-based practice guidelines for frequent ICD code diagnoses andreview of treatment costs are analyzed. 56 theory hours.NS 0644 Practicum in Adult Health I4 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0643.Students apply theoretical learning about genetic implications,exacerbations, complications, and remissions of acute and chronicillnesses in the primary care of adults from adolescence through olderadulthood in various care environments. Under the supervision of a nursepractitioner, physician assistant or physician, students provide primarycare to adult patients from diverse populations. Clinical conferencesprovide an opportunity for discussion and sharing of patient issuesencountered in the practicum as they relate to the diagnosis, treatment,management, shared decision making, evaluation and prevention ofillness, ethical and cost implications, risk assessment, and healthpromotion. Reflective practice techniques are used to document selectivepatient encounters. The advanced practice role components of clinicalpractice, consultation, collaboration, and education are discussed andanalyzed in the clinical conference. 200 clinical hours.NS 0645 Care of Children and Families3 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0646.Prerequisite: NS 0643.The assessment, diagnosis, treatment, management, and evaluation ofrisk factors and health problems of children, adolescents and familiesacross environments of care are addressed. Consideration is given to theunique needs of culturally diverse patients, as well as the managementof both physical and behavioral mental health manifestations commonlyassociated with acute and chronic health problems in primary care. Theidentiﬁcation and clinical management of abnormal ﬁndings generatedfrom age-appropriate assessments are a focus within this course.Emphasis is placed on critical thinking and clinical judgment as theyrelate to the development of appropriate differential diagnoses andapproaches to the interprofessional health management includingparticipation and shared decision making with children and parentsregarding treatment options. Nationally accepted evidence-basedpractice guidelines are followed. Family theory is studied along with theimpact of illness and violence on the family. 42 theory hours.NS 0646 Practicum in Care of Women, Children, and Families4 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0645.Prerequisite: NS 0644.Students synthesize theoretical learning about prevention, exacerbation,complications, and remission of acute and chronic illnesses in caring forfamilies from diverse backgrounds in varied care environments under thesupervision of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, nurse midwife,or physician. Clinical conferences provide an opportunity for discussionand sharing of issues encountered in the practicum as they relate tothe diagnosis, treatment, management, evaluation, and prevention ofillness within the interprofessional team. Ethical and cost implicationsof selected interventions, as well as health promoting strategies, andshared decision making, are examined for the child, adolescent, woman,and family. The advanced practice role components of clinical practice,consultation, collaboration, and education are discussed and integratedin the clinical practicum and conference. 200 clinical hours.NS 0647 Care of At-Risk Populations3 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0648.Prerequisites: NS 0644, NS 0645.This course focuses on the complex management of primary careproblems experienced by individuals across the lifespan. Risk factorsincluding infectious disease, inflammatory state, immunologicaldeﬁciency, obesity, age, genetic predisposition, psychosocial status, andbehavioral health problems and how they influence the managementof an individual's health status are studied. The impact of issues suchas mistreatment, abuse, homelessness, incarceration, and end-of-life concerns on healthcare needs are also examined. Students willexplore issues of healthcare delivery across environments of care asthey integrate all aspects of the advanced practice nurse role includingshared decision making and interprofessional collaboration. Additionalpharmacology is discussed for each system for a minimum of ﬁve hours.Reflective practice techniques are used to document selective patientencounters. A culminating project, selected by faculty and student,involving synthesis and use of knowledge from previous coursework andpractica experiences is required. 42 theory hours.
NS 0648 Practicum in Care of At-Risk Populations4 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0646, NS 0647*.Students synthesize theoretical learning about prevention, exacerbation,complications, and remission of acute and chronic illnesses inthe primary care of patients across the lifespan with multiple riskfactors. Students gain knowledge in caring for patients experiencingor anticipating potential health crises collaboratively with theinterprofessional healthcare team. Clinical conferences provide anopportunity for discussion of the impact of how varying factors suchas obesity, culture, presence of behavioral disease, immunologicalstatus, presence of infectious disease, psychosocial status, andgenetic predisposition relate to the diagnosis, treatment, management,evaluation, and prevention of illness. Strategies for using ethicalguidelines, risk management, shared decision making, and healthpromotion in a cost-effective fashion with these individuals is stressed.Students maximize their leadership ability by delivering primary carecreatively to patients in clinics, private practices, urgent care centers,Emergency Departments, long-term care facilities, prisons, college andschool based clinics. 200 clinical hours. (*indicates concurrency allowed)NS 0650 Psychopathology3 CreditsThis course examines theories of personality and developmentwith an aim to understand what motivates human behavior. Theneurophysiology of psychopathology is examined within a trauma-informed explanatory model. Approaches examined include attachment,relational, psychodynamic, and social psychology theories. These modelsare discussed as they pertain to various diagnostic categories andcultural groups with an emphasis on reflective analysis and applicationto practice. Case studies and reflective application papers are used toillustrate integration and synthesis of knowledge. 42 theory hours.NS 0652 Mental Health Nursing of Individuals3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0521 or NS 0609 or NS 0610; NS 0604, NS 0640,NS 0641, NS 0650.This course provides an overview of individual psychotherapeutictreatment across the lifespan using a neuroscience relationship-basedframework for practice. Emphasis is on the development of empathyand therapeutic relationship through partnership, shared decisionmaking, recovery oriented principles, and integration of reflectivepractice. Evidence-based techniques are discussed, which include short-term psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, EMDR, and motivationalinterviewing. Ethical, legal, age and ethno-cultural considerations arediscussed as they relate to the treatment of individuals with psychiatricdisorders and mental health problems. 42 theory hours.NS 0659 Foundational Clinical Skills for Advanced Psychiatric NursingPractice3 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0650.This course focuses on simulated activities in individual and groupsettings to develop (1) an understanding of group dynamics, groupprocess components, and group members' roles and behaviors, and(2) skills in comprehensive psychiatric assessment and diagnosis withindividuals experiencing acute mental health problems. Therapeuticcommunication techniques and speciﬁc interviewing strategies forworking with individuals and families across the lifespan who are incrisis and/or seeking mental health care. Those strategies are examinedwithin the context of a reflective practice model. Ethical, legal, and ethno-cultural considerations as they relate to group dynamics and assessmentand diagnosis of psychiatric disorders will be discussed.NS 0661 Mental Health Nursing of Groups and Families Across theLifespan2 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0666B.Prerequisite: NS 0652.This course addresses the basic tenets of group and family therapyacross the lifespan for the psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner.Studetns examine major concepts of group development, dynamics, andleadership techniques, as well as approaches to family (including theworks of Bowen, Haley and Minuchin), with opportunities to incorporateshared decision making and reflect upon choice of techniquesappropriate for different age groups and the role of the therapist.Videotape and experiential exercises are used to enhance learning, andethical, spiritual, and ethno-cultural considerations are addressed. 28theory hours.NS 0663 Primary Mental Health Nursing Across the Lifespan2 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0666C.Prerequisite: NS 0661.This course is designed to develop increasing independence andclinical judgment in primary mental health nursing with an emphasison interprofessional collaboration and shared decision making withpatients/families regarding treatment options. Building on knowledgefrom preceding coursework, students apply theories, multifacetedtreatment modalities, cultural and spiritual considerations in themanagement of complex and/or chronically ill vulnerable populationsacross the lifespan. Evidence-based research and practice guidelinesare incorporated into comprehensive plans of care for complex diversepopulations with psychiatric diagnoses and mental health problems. 42theory hours.NS 0665 Mental Health Nursing of Children and Adolescents2 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0650, NS 0652.This course focuses on the assessment, diagnosis, treatment,management and evaluation of risk factors and mental health problemsof infants, children and adolescents across systems of care. Building onknowledge from preceding coursework, students apply developmental,family, interpersonal, attachment, and neurobiological theories andresearch, multifaceted treatment modalities, cultural and spiritualconsiderations in the management of behavioral health problems ofinfants, children and adolescents. 28 theory hours.NS 0666A Practicum I: PMHNP4 CreditsPrerequisite: NS 0652*.Practica experiences give students the opportunity to integrate primarymental health skills and meet the competencies required by the PMHNPProgram. Focus is on the continuous and comprehensive care necessaryfor the promotion of optimal mental health, prevention, and treatment ofmental health problems and psychiatric disorders. Practica experiencesare designed to synthesize reflective practice skills as an advancedpractice psychiatric nurse. Clinical sites may include a wide range ofsettings, such as outpatient clinics, shelters, prisons, inpatient settings,long-term care, and home health care. Supervision is provided bythe preceptors in the clinical agency. Group supervision on campusfacilitates the consolidation of critical reflection and clinical judgment. Allobjectives must be met in order to graduate and many will be met manytimes throughout the practica. A minimum of 16-17 different objectivesare documented as met in each practicum depending on the clinical siteand illustrated through the Clinical Case Narrative Assignment. More thanone Clinical Case Narrative may be needed in order to demonstrate that aminimum of 16 objectives are met for that practicum. 200 clinical hours.(*indicates concurrency allowed)
NS 0666B Practicum II: PMHNP4 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0661.Practica experiences give students the opportunity to integrate primarymental health skills and meet the competencies required by the PMHNPProgram. Focus is on the continuous and comprehensive care necessaryfor the promotion of optimal mental health, prevention, and treatment ofmental health problems and psychiatric disorders. Practica experiencesare designed to synthesize reflective practice skills as an advancedpractice psychiatric nurse. Clinical sites may include a wide range ofsettings, such as outpatient clinics, shelters, prisons, inpatient settings,long-term care, and home health care. Supervision is provided bythe preceptors in the clinical agency. Group supervision on campusfacilitates the consolidation of critical reflection and clinical judgment. Allobjectives must be met in order to graduate and many will be met manytimes throughout the practica. A minimum of 16-17 different objectivesare documented as met in each practicum depending on the clinical siteand illustrated through the Clinical Case Narrative Assignment. More thanone Clinical Case Narrative may be needed in order to demonstrate that aminimum of 16 objectives are met for that practicum. 200 clinical hours.NS 0666C Practicum III: PMHNP4 CreditsCorequisite: NS 0663.Practica experiences give students the opportunity to integrate primarymental health skills and meet the competencies required by the PMHNPProgram. Focus is on the continuous and comprehensive care necessaryfor the promotion of optimal mental health, prevention, and treatment ofmental health problems and psychiatric disorders. Practica experiencesare designed to synthesize reflective practice skills as an advancedpractice psychiatric nurse. Clinical sites may include a wide range ofsettings, such as outpatient clinics, shelters, prisons, inpatient settings,long-term care, and home health care. Supervision is provided bythe preceptors in the clinical agency. Group supervision on campusfacilitates the consolidation of critical reflection and clinical judgment. Allobjectives must be met in order to graduate and many will be met manytimes throughout the practica. A minimum of 16-17 different objectivesare documented as met in each practicum depending on the clinical siteand illustrated through the Clinical Case Narrative Assignment. More thanone Clinical Case Narrative may be needed in order to demonstrate that aminimum of 16 objectives are met for that practicum. 200 clinical hours.NS 0667 Psychopharmacology2 CreditsThis course prepares the advanced practice psychiatric nurse toprescribe psychotropic medication for patients across the lifespan.Assessing for the need for medication, selection of appropriatemedication, genetic and genomic assay testing, medication rule-outs,baseline tests for screening, safe and proper monitoring, and beginning/advanced pharmacotherapy options are discussed for a variety ofpsychiatric diagnoses. Shared decision making with patients/familiesregarding treatment options to obtain optimum treatment outcomes isemphasized with respect to issues of adherence and recovery-focusedpractice. 14 theory hours. Open to nursing students only.NS 0668 End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium CoreCurriculum3 CreditsThis course will cover the ELNEC Core Curriculum, which containseight modules addressing critical aspects of end-of-life care. Thesemodules include: Palliative Nursing Care, Pain Management, SymptomManagement, Ethical Issues in Palliative Care Nursing, CulturalConsiderations in Palliative Care, Communication, Loss, Grief andBereavement, Final Hours and Leadership. Upon completion of thecourse, student will be a "train-the-train" for the ELNEC Core curriculum.Teaching resources will be provided to allow the student to educate othernurses about palliative and end-of-life care. 42 theory hours.NS 0669 Advanced Pathophysiology for Anesthesia Practice4 CreditsThis course focus is on the pathophysiological processes central toalterations in function across the lifespan. Analysis of pathophysiologicresponses, implications of genetics and genomics, and laboratory datapertinent to acute and chronic disease is discussed. Students analyzethe pathophysiology of patients presenting for in-patient and ambulatoryprocedures using a case study approach. 56 theory hours.NS 0670 Human Anatomy and Physiology for NurseAnesthetists3 CreditsThis course presents an in-depth study of human anatomy and advancedphysiologic principles as they relate to nurse anesthesia practice.An overview of cellular physiology and function is presented. Specialattention is placed on the cardiovascular, respiratory and renal systems,as well as the normal neuroendocrine response to stress. Tests ofrespiratory and cardiovascular function are reviewed and their analysisdiscussed. 42 theory hours.NS 0687 DNP Immersion1-6 CreditsDNP graduates are healthcare leaders who will care for a cohort ofpatients within their specialty, while using a cross-population perspectiveto assess, manage and evaluate common problems. The immersionexperience prepares the graduate in the design, delivery, and evaluationof evidenced-based care incorporating advanced practice nursingcompetencies. In addition, students will provide leadership in promotingevidenced-based practice in the advanced practice specialty whilefunctioning as a practice specialist/consultant in the resolution of clinicalproblems. The DNP immersion experience requires a minimum of 1,000practicum hours, post-baccalaureate, and incorporates completion ofaclinical portfolioat the end of the program. 50 to 250 clinical hours.NS 0687F DNP Immersion1 CreditSee NS 0687.NS 0697 DNP Seminar I1 CreditDNP Seminar I provides the foundation for development of the DNPPortfolio and the scholarly DNP Project. In conjunction with the ﬁrst tworesearch courses in the DNP curriculum, this seminar gives studentsthe opportunity to further reﬁne their proposed DNP project aimedat improving the healthcare delivery system or patient outcomes.This project could be a pilot study, a program evaluation, a qualityimprovement project, an evaluation of a new practice model, or anotherproject with a similar practice improvement focus. Project plans aredeveloped to include the identiﬁcation of an appropriate clinical practiceproblem, the patient/system/population outcomes that the project isintended to affect, the proposed project site, and the proposed stepsform implementation and outcome assessment. Students will continueto work with their Portfolio Advisor in developing the project. In addition,students will evaluate their initial development of the DNP Portfolioand identify potential Immersion experiences that focus on achievingprogram outcomes.NS 0698 Independent Study1-3 CreditsThrough individually designed projects or activities, students workwith a faculty member to study a speciﬁc area in depth. Enrollment bypermission of the instructor, DNP Program Director, and/or Dean only.
NS 0699 DNP Seminar II1 CreditPrerequisite: NS 0697.DNP Seminar II is designed to provide students with the opportunity tosynthesize knowledge as they transition to advanced practice nursingat the doctoral level. The seminar reflects integration of all course workand experiential learning in order to demonstrate the students' integrationand utilization of evidence based-practice, ﬁnance, management, qualityimprovement, informatics, leadership, ethics, and relfective practice in themanagement of individual patients, populations, and healthcare systems.Students will be given an opportunity to develop a poster for professionalpresentation, give case presentations developed during immersionexperiences, present drafts of manuscripts and/or practice guidelines,and participate in the peer review process to demonstrate expertise anddecision making skills in their individual area of specialization.Nursing: Anesthesia (NSAN)NSAN 0671 Pharmacologic Strategies in Anesthesia Practice3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0604, NS 0670, NSAN 0673.This course presents a comprehensive study of the pharmacokinetics,pharmacodynamics and pharmacogenetics of drugs utilized inanesthesia practice. Students will focus upon the mechanisms of actionof inhalational anesthetics, intravenous anesthetics, and neuromuscularblocking agents. Special attention will be placed upon the comparativepharmacology of all anesthetic agents as well as their effects on all organsystems. Emphasis will be placed on the practical applications of theanesthetic agents through case presentations and group discussion.NSAN 0673 Chemistry and Physics for Nurse Anesthetists3 CreditsThis course provides a detailed discussion of basic organic, inorganicand biochemical principles, and basic physical principles as they relatedto nurse anesthesia practice. Emphasis is placed upon the behavior ofgases and the gas laws, principles of diffusion, gas flow and resistance,acid-base balance, and the biochemical processes necessary for basiccellular function. In addition, the basic physical principles of work, energy,light, electricity and radiation are discussed with a focus on operatingroom safety and the use of biomedical equipment. Group discussionis utilized to facilitate the application of these principles to the clinicalsetting.NSAN 0675 Clinical Orientation and Specialty Rotations1 CreditPrerequisite: NSAN 0671.Clinical orientation is designed to introduce the student to the hands-on basics of nurse anesthesia practice. Emphasis will be placed onanesthesia equipment setup drug preparation, basic airway managementskills and basic regional anesthesia skills. In addition, students will beginthe process of developing patient speciﬁc anesthesia care plans onsimulated patients utilizing current best practices. Students also takepart in an orientation to the PACU, anesthesia pain service, anesthesiapreoperative holding area, preoperative testing and respiratory therapyservice. These rotations introduce the student to the adjunct hospitalservices necessary for the care of the patient during the perioperativeperiod. Current standards of care and codes of ethical practice will alsobe explored.NSAN 0676 Clinical Practicum I1 CreditPrerequisites: NSAN 0675, NSAN 0678.Clinical Practicum I is designed for the novice practitioner to integrateacademic knowledge with basic practical application. Emphasis will beplaced on basic airway management, function and usage of anesthesiaequipment; pre-operative assessment and evaluation, intra-operativemanagement and post-anesthesia management for healthy ASA classI and class II patients. The student works side by side with a certiﬁedanesthesia provider at all times.NSAN 0677 Clinical Practicum II1 CreditPrerequisite: NSAN 0676.This clinical practicum provides experience for the beginningintermediate student practitioner who has demonstrated successfulcompletion of clinical practicum I. Clinical practicum II deals with theincorporation and integration of knowledge, skills and objectives fora more comprehensive and complex range of patients and surgeries.Emphasis is placed on the development of independent critical decisionmaking skills as the students begins to gain independence in practice.NSAN 0678 Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management in ClinicalPractice2 CreditsPrerequisite: NSAN 0671.This course presents a comprehensive study of the regional anesthesiatechniques currently utilized in clinical practice. Basic principles ofneuroscience, pharmacology of local anesthetics and ultrasoundtechnology will be applied. Emphasis will be put on the appropriateselection and application of regional techniques to achieve optimalanesthesia and analgesia for surgery and pain management. Teachingmethods will include lecture, demonstration and hands-on regionalworkshops.NSAN 0680 Clinical Practicum III2 CreditsPrerequisite: NSAN 0677.This course provides experience for the intermediate student practitionerin order to incorporate and integrate advanced academic knowledge,clinical skills and critical decision making for a more comprehensiverange of patients. At the completion of Clinical Practicum III the studentwill demonstrate the ability to manage the anesthesia care of theASA class I-V and IE-VE with supervision. Student independence isencouraged as the intermediate anesthesia provider works alonewith attending physicians for healthy uncomplicated procedures andsupervised for more complex cases.NSAN 0682 Clinical Practicum IV2 CreditsPrerequisites: NSAN 0680.This clinical practicum is designed to allow the advanced studentpractitioner to integrate all previously attained knowledge and clinicalskills into anesthesia practice for all elective and emergency ASA classI-V patients. At the completion of Clinical Practicum IV the AdvancedStudent Practitioner will be able to formulate, implement and evaluatea plan for perioperative anesthesia care for adult and pediatric ASA I-Vpatients and ASA IE-VE patients with supervision, demonstrate criticalthinking skills in a diverse range of clinical situations, including off-siteanesthesia locations and as a member of the "code team", work in acollaborative effort with other members of the anesthesia and surgicalcare teams, exhibit ethical and professional behavior in anesthesiapractice and function as a patient advocate.
NSAN 0683 Clinical Correlation Conference2 CreditsCorequisite: NSAN 0685.Prerequisite: NSAN 0682.This course provides students with the opportunity to integrateknowledge necessary for professional nurse anesthesia practice utilizingcomprehensive case presentations, which integrate and discuss currentanesthesia topics, equipment, techniques and practices involved incurrent anesthesia case management. Ethical considerations as theyapply to speciﬁc case management will be discussed. This review willutilize a combination of didactic lectures, exams, case presentations andseminar discussions. An emphasis will be placed on neuroanesthesia andthe anesthetic management for major coexisting disease in preparationfor the national certiﬁcation exam.NSAN 0685 Clinical Practicum V2 CreditsPrerequisite: NSAN 0682.This ﬁnal clinical practicum is designed to allow the Complex Practitionerto demonstrate the integration of all previous knowledge, skills andobjectives, for the anesthetic management of all ASA I-V and ASA IE-IVEpatients. At the completion of Clinical Practicum V the student will beable to function as an independent practitioner and will have met all ofthe requirements in order to sit for the national certiﬁcation examination.The complex practitioner will be able to formulate, implement andevaluate a plan for perioperative anesthesia care for adult and pediatricASA I-V and ASA IE-VE patients, demonstrate critical thinking skills inall clinical situations and patient care venues, work in a collaborativeeffort with other members of the anesthesia and surgical care team,function as a team leader and collaborative member in cardiopulmonaryresuscitation, and exhibit ethical and professional behavior in anesthesiapractice.NSAN 0686 Principles of Nurse Anesthesia Practice I3 CreditsPrerequisites: NS 0604, NS 0670, NSAN 0673.This course provides an in-depth introduction to the basic principlesof anesthesia practice as they apply to the general perioperativemanagement of patients across the lifespan. Emphasis is placed onpre-anesthesia assessment, anesthesia equipment, patient monitoring,airway management and basic regional anesthesia techniques. Studentsanalyze current best practices in the development of the generalanesthesia plan of care.NSAN 0687 Principles of Nurse Anesthesia Practice II3 CreditsPrerequisites: NSAN 0671, NSAN 0686.This course provides an in-depth discussion of the anestheticmanagement for speciﬁc patient populations, coexisting diseasestates and surgical procedures. Emphasis will be placed on the relatedpathophysiology, as well as the practical clinical considerations involvedin administering anesthesia and providing appropriate patient monitoringin specialty anesthesia practice. Focus is placed on the management ofpatients undergoing intra-abdominal, thoracic, cardiac, neurosurgical, andhead and neck procedures, and the associated disease states.NSAN 0688 Principles of Nurse Anesthesia Practice III2 CreditsPrerequisite: NSAN 0687.This course continues the in-depth discussion of the anestheticmanagement for speciﬁc patient populations, coexisting diseasestates and surgical procedures. Emphasis will be placed on the relatedpathophysiology, as well as the practical clinical considerations involvedin administering anesthesia and providing appropriate patient monitoringin specialty anesthesia practice including pediatric and obstetricanesthesia care. The management of neuromuscular and endocrinedisorders, burn injuries, organ transplantation and diagnostic/therapeuticprocedures will be discussed.Nursing: Midwifery (NSMW)NSMW 0620 Antepartum Care3 CreditsCorequisites: NS 0604, NS 0640, NSMW 0621.This course introduces students to the theory and practice of nurse-midwifery, with an emphasis on antepartum care. Care of the pregnantwoman, fetus, and childbearing family during the prenatal period areexplored holistically from each of the following perspectives: biological,physiological, developmental, and cultural. The educational andnutritional needs of the pregnant woman are examined. Students learnhow to perform comprehensive assessments on a pregnant woman atall gestational ages, as well as the timing and indication of screeningtests during pregnancy. An emphasis is placed on prevention andscreening based on evidenced-based research. Normal fetal growth andfetal testing options are covered. Research-based advanced nursinginterventions, including physiological, psychosocial and pharmacologicalinterventions to promote, to maintain, and to restore the optimal healthof women in pregnancy are explored. Clinical practice guidelines arehighlighted and attention given to cultural, socioeconomic and familyvariations in the provision of care in the antepartum setting.NSMW 0621 Antepartum Clinical2 CreditsCorequisites: NS 0604, NS 0640, NSMW 0620.As the ﬁrst practicum in the nurse-midwifery specialty, this clinicalfocuses on providing evidence-based care and utilizing health promotionwhen caring for the pregnant woman. Emphasis is placed on the physicalexam of a pregnant woman, assessment of fetal wellbeing, and providingprenatal education. Students use critical thinking and clinical judgmentas they relate the provision of care to pregnant woman. Evidence based-practice guidelines are followed to provide routine prenatal care as wellas to recognize abnormal ﬁndings. The assessment, diagnosis, treatment,management and evaluation of risk factors and health problems willbe addressed. Attention is given to cultural, socioeconomic and familyvariations in the provision of care in the antepartum setting.NSMW 0622 Women's Primary Care and Gynecological Health I3 CreditsCorequisites: NS 0601, NS 0608, NS 0697.Prerequisites: NS 0604, NS 0610, NS 0640, NSMW 0620, NSMW 0621.This course focuses on the provision of reproductive-based health careto non-pregnant women across the lifespan and on the provision ofprimary care to both non-pregnant and pregnant women. This courseexamines current primary care and gynecological women's health carepractices and theories from the following disciplines: biological, genetic,psychological, developmental, sociocultural and cultural. Students willdevelop critical thinking, clinical care skills, and management strategiesfor a holistic approach to primary care and gynecologic care of women.Family planning and contraceptive options will be reviewed. Emphasisis on comprehensive assessments and screening recommendationsfrom evidence-based research. Concepts related to health promotionare provided. The primary care management of selected common healthconditions affecting women will be covered. Additionally, pharmacologyspeciﬁc to gynecologic and primary care issues will be included.
NSMW 0623 Women's Primary Care and Gynecological Health II3 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0624.Prerequisites: NS 0641, NSMW 0622.This course is a continuation of NSMW 0622 and focuses on theprovision of reproductive-based health care to non-pregnant womenacross the lifespan and on the provision of primary care to both non-pregnant and pregnant women. This course further examines currentprimary care and gynecological women's health care practices andtheories from the following disciplines: biological, genetic, psychological,developmental, sociocultural and cultural. Students in this course willdevelop critical thinking, clinical care skills, and management strategiesfor a holistic approach to primary care and gynecologic care of women.Emphasis is on comprehensive assessments and prevention andscreening recommendations from evidence-based research. Having beenintroduced to the primary care and gynecologic health promotion andmaintenance of women in NSMW 0622, this course will explore beyondthese concepts, and further examine the abnormal conditions in theprimary care and gynecologic setting. Pharmacology speciﬁc to women'shealth and abnormal conditions will be covered in depth. Attention willbe given to common episodic and chronic primary care and gynecologicconditions of women in the healthcare settings. In addition, to primarycare and gynecologic assessments, preconception and postpartumassessments (including breastfeeding) will be explored. Developmentalconsiderations, vulnerable populations, and cultural needs, as they relateto health promotion will be discussed in depth.NSMW 0624 Women's Primary Care and Gynecological HealthClinical3 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0623.Prerequisites: NS 0641, NSMW 0622.Focus on evidenced based practice approaches to primary care andgynecologic care, speciﬁcally, ambulatory management of common,acute, and chronic health conditions of women throughout the lifespan,including preconceptual, interconceptual, and postpartum care.Prevention and screening using patient databases and evidence-based research will be emphasized. Further emphasis will be onphysiological, psychosocial, and pharmacological interventions withwomen. Age-related, cultural, family, and individual patient variationsand vulnerabilities will be incorporated into the review of clinical practiceguidelines.NSMW 0625 Intrapartum Care3 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0626.Prerequisites: NSMW 0623, NSMW 0624.This course focuses on normal labor and birth and introduces studentsto intrapartum theory, skills, and management. Synthesis and applicationof theory and research to effectively implement midwifery care in theintrapartum setting. Focus is on comprehensive team participationand management of intrapartum and immediate postpartum womenwith normal deliveries. Evaluation and immediate care of the newbornis included. Development and evaluation of evidenced based careapproaches is incorporated throughout the course. An emphasis isplaced on vulnerable populations to critically evaluate the impact ofcontextual factors on healthcare services in the intrapartum setting. Thecourse highlights the normalcy of birth for the low risk woman.NSMW 0626 Intrapartum Clinical2 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0625.Prerequisites: NSMW 0623, NSMW 0624.Intrapartum clinical serves as the student midwife's ﬁrst experiencemanaging intrapartum clients in the hospital or birth center setting andas the foundational course for intrapartum management of the lowrisk pregnant client. Skills are ﬁrst taught in didactic and simulationsettings, ensuring each student midwife is checked off on these skillsprior to beginning clinical. This clinical focuses on normal labor andbirth and introduces students to intrapartum skills and management.Application of theory and research from NSMW 0625 will be used toeffectively implement midwifery care in the intrapartum setting. Focus ison comprehensive team participation and management of intrapartumand immediate postpartum women with normal deliveries. Evaluationand immediate care of the newborn is included. An emphasis is placedon vulnerable populations to critically evaluate the impact of contextualfactors on healthcare services in the intrapartum setting. This clinicalhighlights the normalcy of birth for the low risk woman.NSMW 0627 Advanced Midwifery Management: At-RiskChildbirth3 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0628.Prerequisites: NSMW 0625, NSMW 0626.Building on NSMW 0625, this course will provide synthesis andapplication of theory and research to effectively implement advancedmidwifery care in the intrapartum setting. In this course, potentialcomplications arising during normal birth are explored. Further, commonmedical, surgical, and obstetric complications are explored in depth. Casestudies, case presentations, and simulations are utilized as the primarycourse format for the students to evaluation patients and managecommon obstetric complications. Skills to prevent and manage commonobstetric complications and life threatening problems of childbearingwomen will be emphasized. Skills for immediate assessment, supportivemanagement of the newborn, including physiological, psychosocialand pharmacologic interventions will be incorporated. Students willhave the opportunity to become certiﬁed in neonatal resuscitation.Interprofessional simulations with the nurse-anesthesia studentsand BSN maternal and newborn nursing students will be coordinatedthroughout the course to simulate actual patient scenarios with a focuson teamwork and communication.NSMW 0628 Advanced Midwifery Clinical2 CreditsCorequisite: NSMW 0627.Prerequisites: NSMW 0625, NSMW 0626.Building on the prior clinical course NSMW 0626, this course willprovide application of theory and research to effectively implementadvanced midwifery care in the intrapartum setting. In this course,potential complications arising during normal birth are exploredand care will be provided to women with these conditions. Further,common medical, surgical, and obstetric complications are exploredin depth. Further, students evaluate patients and manage commonobstetric complications. Skills to prevent and manage common obstetriccomplications and life threatening problems of childbearing womenwill be emphasized. Skills for immediate assessment, supportivemanagement of the newborn, including physiological, psychosocialand pharmacologic interventions will be incorporated. Students willhave the opportunity to become certiﬁed in neonatal resuscitation.Interprofessional simulations with the nurse-anesthesia studentsand BSN maternal and newborn nursing students will be coordinatedthroughout the course and clinical seminars to simulate actual patientscenarios with a focus on teamwork and communication.
NSMW 0629 Integration to Nurse-Midwifery Practice6 CreditsPrerequisites: NSMW 0627, NSMW 0628.As the ﬁnal midwifery course, transition to midwifery practice fostersthe incorporation of all previous classroom and clinical experiences inorder to prepare the nurse midwife for practice upon graduation. Thiscourse enables students to provide full-scope midwifery care while stillhaving the advantages of being a student. This course is a ﬁnal synthesisof primary care, gynecology, antepartum, intrapartum, postpartum, andnewborn care, and therefore builds on all previous knowledge and skillsfrom coursework and clinical. Students utilize both theory and evidence-based research to drive care and treatment decisions in the clinicalsetting. They will become familiar with the responsibility inherent to theiremerging role as a nurse-midwife. In the healthcare setting, students willcollaborate with members of the healthcare team and display evidencebased clinical practice. Within the health care team, midwifery clinicalassessment and management skills across the reproductive lifespaninto older age will be utilized. Students will safely conduct and deliverevidenced based primary care visits emphasizing disease prevention.They will manage gynecologic, family planning, antepartum, intrapartum,and postpartum healthcare visits creating individual treatment plans andattend deliveries in the intrapartum setting. They will manage the care ofthe newborn from birth through 28 days of life. Students will each havea variety of primary care and inpatient care setting, including optionalglobal health settings (Nicaragua), as they are available. Evaluationand critique of care approaches of women throughout the lifespanand of newborns is highlighted throughout clinical practice. Emphasisis placed on thorough examination of the impact of psychosocialand environmental factors on healthcare services in women's health.Students must have successfully completed all other NSMW courses,clinicals, and prerequisites prior to integration.Operations Management (OM)OM 0101 Operations Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: EC 0278 or MA 0017 or MA 0217; Sophomore standing.This course provides the primary exposure to service and manufacturingoperations management within the business core curriculum. Topicsinclude process modeling, quality management and control, decisionanalysis, capacity planning, supply chain management, and projectplanning and control. Special attention is given to showing how conceptsand models presented in lectures and readings apply to real-worldbusiness situations. Examples of international operations are studied,and ethical issues are explored within the context of decisions such aswhere to locate facilities.OM 0140 Project Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: EC 0278 or MA 0017 or MA 0217.This course introduces students to project management and itsrole in business operations, with applications in such functionalareas as accounting, ﬁnance, information systems, management,and marketing. Topics include the linkage between projects andorganizational strategy, project planning and scheduling, projectdevelopment and implementation, applying best practices and tools,evaluation methodologies and control techniques, and critical successfactors. Special attention is given to showing how concepts and modelspresented in lectures and readings apply to real-world projects.OM 0400 Principles of Business Analytics3 CreditsThis course introduces basic concepts and tools relevant to operationsand supply chain management, including process mapping, qualitymanagement, decision analysis, capacity planning, supply chainmanagement, project management, and operations strategy. Casestudies are used to link the concepts and models to real-world businessapplications.OM 0500 Business Model Optimization3 CreditsPrerequisite: OM 0400.This course introduces basic skills necessary for business analyticssuch as data analysis using basic statistics, data visualization andsummarization, descriptive and inferential statistics, spreadsheetmodeling for prediction, linear regression, risk analysis using Monte-Carlo simulation, linear and nonlinear optimization, and decision analysis.Microsoft Excel is used as the platform for conducting analyses andperforming statistical calculations.OM 0525 Process Improvement and Quality Management3 CreditsPrerequisites: OM 0400, QA 0400.This course addresses topics and methods related to business processimprovement and lean six-sigma quality management so that ﬁrms areable to improve their performance along key dimensions such as cost,quality, speed, and flexibility. Through the use of case studies, studentslearn to approach problems using methods that have proven effectivefor a variety of organizations. Topics include: ﬁnancial justiﬁcation ofoperational improvements, change management, six-sigma processimprovement methods and tools, business process reengineering, andlean production concepts applied in both manufacturing and serviceorganizations. This course will also reinforce skills involved in working inteams and communicating recommendations effectively.OM 0535 Global Logistics and Supply Chain Management3 CreditsThis course emphasizes global logistics as the management of time andplace. It takes an integrated cross-functional management approachusing strategic infrastructure and resource management to efﬁcientlycreate customer value. Speciﬁcally, it examines the time-related globalpositioning of resources and the strategic management of the totalsupply-chain. Topics include procurement, manufacturing, distribution,and waste disposal, and discussion of associated transport, storage, andinformation technologies.Peace and Justice Studies (PJ)PJ 0110 Black Lives Matter3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, PJST Peace and JusticeStudies, UDIV U.S. DiversityIn the context of Ferguson, Charleston, and other national crises, thiscourse responds to the call of students from our campus community toraise questions about and critically reflect upon the failures of democracyto recognize the value of Black Life. This course employs collectivethinking, teaching, and research to focus on questions surroundingrace, structural inequality, and violence. It examines the historical,geographical, cultural, social, and political ways in which race has beenconﬁgured and deployed in the United States. Various faculty will bring tobear their respective scholarly lenses so that students understand raceand racism across intellectual disciplines.
PJ 0298 Internship in Advocacy and Community Organizing3 CreditsThis internship provides students in the minor with the opportunityto understand, through direct participation, how citizens organize toempower their communities and promote policies that will beneﬁtthem. Interns are placed with community organizations in the greaterBridgeport area and some placements include advocacy work in the statelegislator in Hartford. The internship requires a journal and ﬁnal reflectionpaper based on analysis of the site experience and its relationship topeace and justice. Enrollment by permission only.PJ 0398 Capstone Research Seminar3 CreditsThis course creates a context for integrating and reflecting onexperiences and knowledge acquired in the program by providing thestudents the opportunity to examine how their major connects to thevalues and practices of peace and justice. Students undertake a majorresearch project focused on applying their practical engagement withpeace and justice issues to broader theoretical frameworks with attentionto contemplating a vision for change in the future. The course is builtaround student-led discussion and an in-depth research project thatanalyzes an issue from the student's major area of study through the lensof peace and justice.Philosophy (PH)PH 0101 Introduction to Philosophy3 CreditsThis course is a topical introduction to philosophy. The aim of the courseis to introduce students to the vocation of wonder and questioning byengaging students in discussions about some of the basic questions ofphilosophy.Students will read texts from historical and contemporarywriters, and will be asked to develop their own skills of thinking, reading,and writing critically.PH 0200 Ancient Philosophy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.In this course we will investigate how the earliest practitioners of Westernphilosophy conceived of their own activity. The word philosophy' stemsfrom two ancient Greek words and means, literally, 'love of wisdom.' Alover of wisdom is one who pursues wisdom rather than possesses it;consequently, we can think of ancient philosophers as founding a historyof inquiry into questions whose relevance for human beings ensures theirpersistence, questions like: What is the nature of the universe? What canbe known? and What in any given situation is the right thing to do?PH 0201 Medieval and Renaissance Philosophy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course will examine texts from representative thinkers fromAugustine of Hippo in the period of the post-Constantinian Empireto Thomas More in the Renaissance, all sharing the new conceptionof philosophy. For Christians, as well as for Muslims and Jews, theenterprise of philosophy took on new motivation -- the understanding ofone's faith -- and addressed new problems, not considered by the ancientGreeks and Romans.PH 0202 Modern Philosophy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.In light of the development and success of the new mechanistic sciencein the 17th and 18th centuries philosophers began to reexamine suchfundamental philosophical topics as the nature of the human mind,the relationship between the mind and body, the source and scopeof human knowledge, the existence of a divine being, and the sourceand nature of morality. In this course we will trace the development ofphilosophical thought in the writings of modern philosophers such asBacon, Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley Hume, Reid, and Kant.PH 0203 19th Century Philosophy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the representative philosophers of the 19thcentury, notably Kant, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, Schleiermacher,Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, and Marx.PH 0204 20th Century Philosophy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course presents a coherent picture of the main currents ofcontemporary philosophy in the Western and the non-Western tradition:phenomenology and existentialism, pragmatism and analytic philosophy,Marxism and dialectic materialism, and philosophy of history and culture.PH 0205 Ancient Medicine and Philosophy3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and EthicsPrerequisite: PH 0101.The various methods for investigating the human body have beensubject to foundational questions of scientiﬁc investigation, religioussanction, social condemnation and philosophical impasse. In this class,we will look at the way in which Ancient Greek medical practitionersand philosophers took up these investigations, negotiated problems ofmethod, and profoundly influenced the ways we talk about, think aboutand treat the body today.PH 0206 Philosophical Perspectives on Women in ClassicalLiterature3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: PH 0101.Ancient Greek and Latin literature presented its audience with a cast ofcharacters who continue to enjoy social, political and cultural currency.Antigone and Oedipus, Helen and Paris, Cassandra and Prometheus haveall had a hand in shaping western thought about the natures of beautyand freedom, the limits of human knowledge, and the role of law.In thiscourse we will focus speciﬁcally upon the literary characterizations ofwomen found throughout the ancient Greek and Latin worlds.PH 0209 Existentialism3 CreditsAttributes: FREN French Course Taught in EnglishPrerequisite: PH 0101.The word existentialism describes a particular attitude toward thecreation of meaning out of an inherently meaningless existence.Despite the diversity within the tradition, the existentialists of the19th and 20th century often address questions pertaining to humanfreedom and responsibility, values and nihilism, anguish and afﬁrmation,authenticity, and the absurd. This course traces how existentialism hasanswered these questions. In so doing, students are encouraged torethink the foundation of their own existence and personal values, whileunderstanding the implications of Dostoyevsky's "If God is dead, theneverything is permitted" and Sartre's "Man is condemned to be free."PH 0210 Phenomenology3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious StudiesPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course introduces students to phenomenology. Considered by manyto be the most important theoretical movement of the 20th-Century,phenomenology is both a philosophical tradition and a method. Fromits founder Edmund Husserl to authors like Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty,Sartre, Derrida, and Levinas, to more recent voices in broader gender andrace discussions, phenomenology still has signiﬁcant influence today inexistentialism, hermeneutics, and deconstruction. Students will engagein questions such as these: What is phenomenology? How is it practiced?What distinguishes this method from other approaches? What are its keycontributions?
PH 0211 American Philosophy3 CreditsAttributes: ASPH American Studies: Philosophy, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, WSGC Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderComponentPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the origin and development of the Americanphilosophical tradition and its culmination in pragmatism, includingthe relation of philosophical ideas in America to literature, religion, andpolitics. The course emphasizes the writings of Jonathan Edwards, RalphWaldo Emerson, Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, and John Dewey.PH 0212 Critical Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the 20th century philosophical movement ofcultural critique arising out of the association of German Jewish scholarsknown as the Frankfurt School. Central problems within this movementinclude the persistence of violence within human reason, the variousforms and forces of ideology, the relation of political activity to artisticactivity, the proper undertaking of immanent social critique, and thepossibility of freedom in societies that are increasingly authoritarian.Representative thinkers within this ﬁeld include Theodor Adorno, MaxHorkheimer, Herbert Marcuse, Erich Fromm, and Walter Benjamin.PH 0215 Philosophy of Science3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.Science and philosophy have always proceeded hand in hand, withthe major ﬁgures in Western science being heavily influenced by thephilosophy of their times and the major ﬁgures in Western philosophyheavily influenced by the science of their times. In this course wewill explore the interconnections between philosophy and science. Indoing so we will ﬁnd some of the most deep, difﬁcult, and fundamentalquestions there are, but with the "lens of science," so to speak, focusingthese questions more sharply than they are often otherwise focused.PH 0216 Philosophy and Biology of Evolutionary Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course explores the question of evolutionary theory from theperspectives of philosophy and biology. From the biological perspective,the course focuses on genetics, adaptive evolution, neutral evolution, thegenetic impact of selection on populations, the origin and maintenanceof genetic variation, the importance of development in evolution,the expression of variation, and coevolution. From the philosophicalperspective, the course focuses on evolution as theory and ideology,the critique of the adaptationist program, evolution and contingency,typological versus population thinking, and the developmental systemscritique.PH 0217 Logic3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course provides a basic acquaintance with prevailing systems andmethods of logic, notably traditional (Aristotelian) and modern (standardmathematical) logics.PH 0218 Philosophy and Biochemistry of Food and EatingPractices3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.An essential and necessary component of our daily lives, food offersitself as one of the most interesting topics of cultural and scientiﬁcdiscussion. This course is designed to analyze food and eating practicesfrom the twofold perspective of philosophy and biochemistry. Theintersections of philosophy and biochemistry will be highlighted intopics such as "Food as Art" (juxtaposing the aesthetic and biomolecularproperties of food) and "Food in Culture" (contrasting how societiesprepare and eat food with the nutrition and technology of food science).To accomplish our learning goals and spur lively discussions, we willcombine a lecture with activities such as trips to farms, museums,American "terroirs", guest lectures, and in-class laboratory activities.PH 0220 Philosophy of Religion3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious StudiesPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course inquires into the nature of religion in general from thephilosophical point of view. That is, it employs the tools of criticalanalysis and evaluation without a predisposition to defend or reject theclaims of any particular religion.PH 0221 The Question of Religion3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: PH 0101.Nineteenth- and 20th-century continental philosophy calls into questionthe traditional understanding of religion, God, transcendence, incarnation,sacriﬁce, responsibility, evil, and ritual. This course explores thetransformation of the traditional understanding of these ideas in thewake of thinkers such as Hegel, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger,Bataille, Lacan, Levinas, Girard, Nancy, Derrida, and Marion.PH 0222 Evil3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course explores the problem of evil from the perspectives oftheology and philosophy. The course considers God and evil, classicaltheodicies (reasonable justiﬁcations of God before the prevalence of evil),modern philosophical accounts of evil, social evil, and the possibility ofbelief in the face of evil. Within the context of these subjects, the courseaddresses the following questions: What is evil? What are the roots ofevil? What effect does an individual's understanding of evil have on hisor her understanding of the human being, of God, and of religion? What isour responsibility in the face of evil?PH 0223 The Problem of God3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious StudiesPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course studies the problem of the existence of God, including themetaphysical and epistemological issues entailed therein, as developedby such thinkers as Augustine, Anselm, Aquinas, Descartes, Hume,Spinoza, Kant, and Hartshorne.PH 0230 Philosophy of Self and Subjectivity3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.In 446 BCE the Greek poet Pindar, crafted this line: "What is someone?What is someone not? A person is the dream of a shadow." What does itmean to be a self or a subject? While most people would claim to knowthemselves, it is not always entirely clear what a 'self' is. This courseexamines the development and parameters of the self and subjectivitythrough the lens of major philosophical ﬁgures. First using a historicalapproach, then applying methods from contemporary schools of thought,the course investigates the self as both an anchor of security and sourceof complexity.
PH 0240 Introduction to Asian Philosophies3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course provides a philosophical overview of the major philosophicaltraditions that originate in Indian and China, including signiﬁcantphilosophical responses and contributions to them from throughoutgreater Asia. These traditions include, but are not limited to, Hinduism,Buddhism, Confucianism, and Daoism. Emphasis is given tophilosophical exegesis of texts and practices; some comparison withWestern traditions may also be included.PH 0241 Confucianism3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: PH 0101.Confucianism is a reflective tradition that for over 2500 years has shapedsocial norms and moral values in East Asia. It underlies traditionalpolitical theory and religious practice and remains the template for socialinteractions. In this course we examine the Confucian tradition throughits major ﬁgures and primary texts, from the Analects of Confucius(551-479 BCE) to the writings of contemporary Confucians. Emphasisis given to drawing out the philosophical content of Confucian thoughtby engaging both traditional commentaries and recent philosophicalinterpretations. We also assess the appropriateness of regarding certainpractices and institutions as Confucian.PH 0242 Philosophical Daoism and Zen Buddhism3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course explores writings and philosophical influences of Daoismand Zen Buddhism in East Asia and in the West. The key philosophicalthemes covered are the related ideas of non-action (wuwei) and empty-mind (mushin). Emphasis is given to philosophical exegesis of thesethemes and their potential application to ideals of personal, moral,and professional integrity. The course includes reading and discussionof historical and contemporary texts. It may also involve exploratory,reflective engagement in Dao and Zen associated activities suchas breathing meditation, T'ai Chiexercises, brush-calligraphy, haikucomposition, or archery.PH 0250 Ethical Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course presents an in depth examination of how moral judgmentsare justiﬁed. The history of philosophy has led to a number of differenttheoretical frameworks that seek to set out methods for moraljustiﬁcation. We examine several of these methods and reflect uponhow they support and/or contradict each other and what is at stakewhen moral systems conflict. In addition to examining the writings ofphilosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, Hobbes, Kant, Nietzsche, Mill,and Rawls, students will be asked to consider how these theoreticalframeworks apply in actual cases.PH 0251 Ethical Theories in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASPH American Studies: Philosophy, ASUP American StudiesUpper LevelPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the growth and development of ethical theoryin America. America's ﬁrst philosophers, Jonathan Edwards, BenjaminFranklin, Thomas Jefferson, et al, distinguished their philosophies interms of religious, political, and social values. This ethical stance becamea tradition in America. The course examines this tradition in the writingsof representative American philosophers.PH 0260 Social and Political Philosophy3 CreditsAttributes: BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course analyzes the writings of leading social and political thinkers,with special consideration of the movements of protest and dissent.PH 0263 The Concept of Human Rights3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.Bosnia, Somalia, Guatemala, the Holocaust: The notion of human rightsand accusations of human rights violations are a constant presence inour political environment and in the formulation of U.S. foreign policy.This course follows the emergence of this concept from the politicaland ethical thought of the Greeks, to the Enlightenment, to the explicitformulation of "human rights" in the 20th century as a guiding principle ofinternational relations.PH 0264 Philosophy of Law3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the major questions of legal philosophy, the natureof legal rights and legal duties, the deﬁnition of law, and the grounds oflegal authority.PH 0265 Philosophy and Economic Anthropology3 CreditsAttributes: PMMP Philosophy Major: Major PhilosopherPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines the economy from philosophical andanthropological perspectives. We will investigate why people produce andexchange things, why they seek to amass things in some circumstancesand give them away in others, and how our modern understandings ofvalue, debt, and rationality emerged.PH 0270 Aesthetics3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.The course examines aesthetic experience and concepts like imitation,expression, and psychic distance; considers the relationships among thevarious arts; and explores the role of art in life.PH 0271 Philosophy of Tragedy3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course explores various works on tragedy by, for example, Plato,Aristotle, Hegel, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Freud, Heidegger, Lacan,Derrida, and Irigaray, which are read alongside various tragedies such asSophocles' Oedipus the King and Antigone, and Shakespeare's Hamlet.PH 0272 Philosophy of Film3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.Philosophy of ﬁlm is one of the leading branches of philosophicalaesthetics. While informed by and partly related to disciplines such asﬁlm studies, ﬁlm theory, and ﬁlm criticism, philosophy of ﬁlm privilegesa cognitive approach to the interpretation and study of ﬁlm, an approachaccording to which ﬁlm might be seen as doing philosophy per se, thusproviding an original contribution to the overall philosophical panorama.The course begins with a critical overview of the most signiﬁcantontologies of ﬁlm. Such a discussion is then followed, in the second andthird units, by the exploration of issues pertaining to both the tradition ofﬁlm studies and to the aforementioned cognitivist tradition. Among theissues considered, speciﬁc attention is given to the question of narrative,to emotions and ﬁlm, and to the relation between ﬁction and nonﬁction. Alast unit will instead open the discussion to the relation between ﬁlm andtelevision and, more speculatively, to the future of ﬁlm in the age of digitaltechnologies.
PH 0281 Philosophies of Love and Sex3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines some of the major trends within traditional andfeminist philosophies of love and sex. Possible topics include the natureof erotic love, the construction of sexual activity, and the social/politicalreality of pornography and prostitution.PH 0282 Violence and the Sacred3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: PH 0101.Is religion essentially violent? How have religious principles been usedto justify abuse? Who suffers the physical and spiritual effects of thishostility? What actions might we take in response to such suffering? Thiscourse examines the intersection of violence and the sacred, especiallyas it has emerged and been confronted within the Catholic/Christiantradition. Attention is paid to the works of both traditional and feministphilosophers. Possible topics include: child abuse, domestic violence,and racial violence.PH 0283 Philosophy and Pornography3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course examines some of the major trends within traditional andfeminist philosophies of pornography. Possible topics include thenature of pornography, the relationship between pornography and theconstruction of sexual desire, and the social/political consequences ofpornography in our communities. Students must be at least 18 years ofage.PH 0299 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: PH 0101.This course explores a speciﬁc topic in the discipline of philosophy, in aneffort to deepen students' vocations of incessant questioning not onlyby exploring a speciﬁc thinker, question, or historical period, but also byfurther developing their own thinking, reading, and critical writing skills.PH 0300 Plato3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course covers central ontological and epistemological themes inselected early, middle, and late Platonic dialogues, paying particularattention to Plato's inclination to identify virtue with knowledge.PH 0301 Aristotle3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course introduces Aristotle through a selection of his works,exploring their relation to other works, their place in the scheme of thesciences, and thoroughly investigating their subject matter.PH 0304 Aquinas3 CreditsAttributes: ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-FocusedPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course focuses on Aquinas's most mature work, Summa Theologiae.This work exempliﬁes the Christian intellectual reaction to IslamicAristotelianism, while at the same time bearing witness to Thomas'sbelief in the unity of truth. The course examines and analyzes suchquestions as the existence and intelligibility of God, the nature andpowers of the human composite, human destiny, the human act, goodand evil, providence and freedom, natural law, and the virtues.PH 0307 Descartes3 CreditsAttributes: FREN French Course Taught in EnglishPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.Three years after he ﬁnished college, Descartes got stuck in a snowstormon his way to ﬁght in a war. Alone in his room, he reflected on hiseducation, coming to believe that many of the things he had been taughtin college were pretty dubious. He also realized that he had believedmany things all his life without giving thought to his reasons for believingthem. He decided the best thing he could do was rid himself of all hisold beliefs and then, relying only on his own mind, replace them withonly those beliefs for which he could ﬁnd good reasons. This coursediscusses the development and results of Descartes' search for truth.PH 0309 Leibniz3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.Can everything in the world be rationally explained? Even the existenceof the world itself? G.W. Leibniz (1646-1716) thought so.Together withhis understanding of the nature of truth, this led him to some startlingconclusions, such as nothing causally interacts with anything else,everything internally reflects everything else, and even though evil existsthis is the best of all possible worlds.In this course we examine theseconclusions as well as Leibniz's theories about such puzzling topics asthe nature of the mind, body, God, freedom, and space.PH 0310 Hume3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course offers an in-depth understanding of the philosophy of DavidHume. Hume, one of the most interesting (and influential) of the 18th-century philosophers, made major contributions to our understandingof causation, morality, and the mind, to name just a few. Hume beganwith principles that seemed quite plausible but, taking these ideas totheir logical conclusions, arrived at a philosophy that is, to say the least,surprising.PH 0311 Kant3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.Almost everyone recognizes that through experience the humanmind is shaped by the world. Immanuel Kant, however, argued forthe revolutionary claim that the world is shaped by the human mind.In developing this position Kant was led to formulate a radical viewconcerning the nature of space and time. It also led him to draw strikingconclusions about our knowledge of ourselves, objects, causation, God,freedom, and immortality - conclusions that changed philosophy forever.In this class we will study Kant's revolution in philosophy.PH 0312 Hegel3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.The philosophy of G.W.F. Hegel, the most famous of the German idealists,directly spawned the philosophy of Karl Marx. Hegel is consideredthe father of existentialism and influenced contemporary schools ofcritical theory, continental philosophy, and post-structuralism. Thiscourse focuses on Hegel's most famous work, Phenomenology of Spirit.Students learn the mechanics of dialectical reasoning by examiningHegel's reflections upon time and space, perception, scientiﬁc reasoning,the concepts of life and death, the master-slave dialectic, and self-consciousness. The course works through this text in detail, and paysparticularly close attention to how Hegel interprets the philosophy ofImmanuel Kant.
PH 0314 Nietzsche3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course deals with the thought of one of the leading philosophicalﬁgures of the 19th century, Friedrich Nietzsche.In terms of both styleand content, Nietzsche was an innovator who called into question thetraditional notions of science, systematic knowledge, ethics, and cultureas such.The task of the course is to examine several themes centralto Nietzsche's work, among them the will to power, the perspectivalapproach to truth, the concept of genealogy, the revaluation of values,eternal recurrence, and the death of God.PH 0316 Bergson3 CreditsAttributes: FREN French Course Taught in EnglishPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course explores the work of Henri Bergson (1859-1941).The courseprimarily takes the form of a close reading of Time and Free Will (1889),Matter and Memory (1911), and The Two Sources of Morality and Religion(1932). The course will also explore the influence of Bergson's work oncontemporary philosophy, psychology, science, and religion.PH 0317 Heidegger3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course explores the work of Martin Heidegger (1889-1976), one ofthe most influential philosophers of the 20th century. It primarily takesthe form of a close reading of Being and Time (1927) and The Originof the Work of Art (1936). The course hinges on Derrida's reading ofHeidegger's existential analysis of death.PH 0320 Metaphysics3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious StudiesPrerequisites: Two previous courses in Philosophy.This course concerns itself with being and our knowledge of being,developing in student minds an operative habit of viewing reality in itsultimate context.PH 0321 Knowledge3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.The focus of this course is to examine the fundamental questionsconcerning human knowledge. For example: What is knowledge? Can Iknow anything? Do I know something because I can trace it back to someindubitable foundation or because it ﬁts together with everything else likea piece of a jigsaw puzzle? Can I have knowledge without being able tosay how I know it? Do men and women know things in different ways? Isknowledge something I can gain on my own or is knowledge essentially asocial activity?PH 0323 Philosophy of Mind3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course acquaints students with the most recent philosophicaltheories on the workings of the mind. Although it emphasizesphilosophical theories of the mind, it also pays close attention to thephilosophical implications of recent research in sciences such aspsychology and neuroscience. This is an exciting topic; join us on thisquest to address the Delphic dictum: Know Thyself!PH 0331 Philosophy of Language3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course introduces the student to the philosophy of language: itsthemes, complexities and problems. Employing a historical approach, thecourse surveys key philosophers who investigate the meaning, sourceand structure of language. Typically their primary question investigatesvarious ways that the human person, while immersed within a context,understands language. After a brief investigation of ancient and medievalthinkers, the course focuses on a number of modern and contemporaryﬁgures who represent the mainstream discussion of the philosophy oflanguage, including representatives of both analytic and continentaltraditions.PH 0350 Advanced Topics in Ethics3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course examines questions pertaining to the status and contentof morality, such as the following. Are there universal moral truths,and what makes them true? Is morality objective, or is it constructedby communities or individuals? What makes an action right or wrong?What reasons do we have to be moral? This course examines competinganswers to such questions and considers philosophical defenses ofthem.PH 0360 Critical Race Theory3 CreditsAttributes: BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSFC Black StudiesFocus Course, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.Although race can be considered as one of several physical features of anindividual, this course will investigate the recent research and literaturein the ﬁeld of Critical Race Theory that critiques this purely biologicalconception. For the purpose of understanding how race functions in oursocio-political world, this body of work treats the concept as a socialconstruction, drawing heavily on the phenomenological and existentialtraditions.Pertinent themes like lived experience, authenticity, and racialprivilege will be explored using key texts (by Jean-Paul Sartre, FranzFanon, Lewis Gordon, and Robert Bernasconi, to name a few).PH 0370 Philosophy of Literature3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course examines the philosophy "of" literature (the general natureof poetry and prose) and philosophy "in" literature (speciﬁc works thatharbor philosophical ideas).PH 0398 Independent Study1-3 CreditsUpon request and by agreement with an individual professor in thedepartment, a student may conduct a one-semester independent studyon a speciﬁc philosophical topic. Prerequisite: two previous courses inPhilosophyPH 0399 Capstone Experience3 CreditsPrerequisites: Two courses in Philosophy.This course is the culminating experience in a student's study ofphilosophy at Fairﬁeld University. Students will be asked to reflecton their philosophical writings and activities over the course of theirstudy, to synthesize and expand a selection of these, to critically andcollegially engage with other students for the mutual improvement oftheir philosophical projects, and to prepare for a philosophical life aftergraduation regardless of their career choices. Enrollment by permissiononly.
Physics (PS)PS 0071 Physics of Light and Color3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateThis course, intended for students who are not majoring in the physicalsciences, covers the particle-wave duality of light and the relationshipof light to other electromagnetic waves. Additional topics includepolarization, vision, color and the perception of color, optical phenomenain nature and in biological systems, color and light in art, simple opticalinstruments, sources of light and their spectra, lasers, and holography.PS 0076 Physics of Sound and Music3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateDesigned for the non-science major, this course examines the physicalprinciples in the production of sound, with an emphasis on soundproduced by musical instruments. Topics include the nature of wavemotion as produced by vibrating strings and organ pipes, harmoniccontent, musical scales and intervals, and the mechanism of thehearing process. The course applies concepts to the construction andcharacteristics of musical instruments and to the design of auditoriumsand concert halls.PS 0077 Science and Technology of War and Peace: The Way ThingsWork3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateDesigned for the non-science major, this course includes criticaldiscussion and descriptive exposition of the swords and plowsharesdilemma, of the concept that science and technology have been usedto build up - and tear down - civilization, and of the forces of civilizationdriving and being driven by the dual nature of our technological heritage.The course begins with the ﬁrst lever and club and ends with lasersurgery and Star-Wars lasers, taking a historical and a thematic approachwhere appropriate. The course describes, in the simplest terms, theway important real devices (television, telephones, lasers, gas turbines,thermonuclear weapons, etc.) work, examining their illustration of andlimitations by scientiﬁc principles at a qualitative level. The coursealso considers the technical future from a past, present, and futureperspective, asking: What can, could, didn't, might, and can we not do?The course illustrates the moral and ethical implications of science whereappropriate. Knowledge of no more than high school algebra is required.PS 0078 The Nature of the Universe3 CreditsThis course, intended for non-science majors, reviews the scientiﬁcﬁeld of cosmology, or the nature of the physical universe, from ahistorical perspective. Beginning with the ancients, the course traces thedevelopment of cosmological principles through the Greek and Egyptianera of Aristotle, C. Ptolemy, and others; the 16th and 17th centuriesof Copernicus, Galileo, and Newton; and the cosmology of the 20thcentury based upon Einstein's theories of relativity coupled with severalfundamental observations. This leads to an examination of the currentmodel of the universe, which is based upon the Big Bang theory.PS 0087 Fundamentals of Astronomy3 CreditsThis course introduces students who are not majoring in science to theprincipal areas, traditional and contemporary, of astronomy. Traditionaltopics include a historical background to astronomy, telescopes, thesun, the moon, the major and minor planets, comets, and meteors. Afterdiscussing these subjects in detail, the course covers areas appropriateto modern astronomy such as the composition and evolution of stars,star clusters, quasars, pulsars, black holes, and cosmological models.PS 0089 Physics of Sport3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies CognateThis course introduces concepts from science, particularly physics, byusing illustrations from a wide variety of sports. For example, it explainswhy a baseball curves, why gears work on a bike, the speeds obtainableby a windsurfer or skier or tennis ball or arrow, how scuba divers survive,and a wide variety of other sports phenomena from football, golf, skiing,climbing, sailing, skating, baseball, scuba, ﬁshing, sky-diving and so forth.The association of sports with motion, forces, and energy is explained byscientiﬁc reasoning and analysis. The course includes a small laboratory/experiential component that illustrates the scientiﬁc method, wherevarious examples of sports are made quantitative, using readily availableequipment.PS 0093 Energy and Environment3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EVME EnvironmentalStudies Major Elective, EVNS Environmental Studies: Natural Science,EVPE Environmental Studies ElectiveThis course introduces students not majoring in the natural sciencesto topics relating to work, energy, and power, and explores many ofthe environmental consequences resulting from our use of energy.The course examines the ﬁnite nature of fossil fuels as well as manyalternative energy sources including solar energy; wind, tidal, andgeothermal energy; nuclear ﬁssion; and nuclear fusion. Students usearithmetic and simple algebra.PS 0115 General Physics I3 CreditsPrerequisite: MA 0145 or higher (concurrency allowed).This introductory course - for students concentrating in physics,mathematics, chemistry, or engineering - covers mechanics, heat, andfluid dynamics. It also includes rigorous mathematical derivationsusing integral and differential calculus. Topics include velocity andacceleration, Newton's laws of motion, work, energy, power momentum,torque, vibratory motion, elastic properties of solids, fluids at rest andin motion, properties of gases, measurement and transfer of heat, andelementary thermodynamics.PS 0115L General Physics I Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: PS 0115.This lab course engages students in experimental measurementsspanning the areas of mechanics and thermal stresses on matter,with the objective of training students in experimental measurements,data manipulation and analysis, error analysis, deductive thinking, andinstrumentation, providing depth to students' understanding of thephenomena taught in PS 115. Speciﬁc experimental measurementsinclude accelerated motion, periodic motion, gravitational force, ballistics,conservation of energy and momentum, rotational dynamics, andmeasurements of the coefﬁcient of linear expansion and the heat offusion. Students complete a weekly lab report.PS 0116 General Physics II3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0146 or higher (concurrency allowed); PS 0115.This continuation of PS 0115 covers electricity and magnetism, lightand optics, and sound. Topics include magnetism and electricity;simple electric circuits; electrical instruments; generators and motors;characteristics of wave motion; light and illumination; reflection;refraction, interference; polarization of light, color, and the spectrum; andproduction and detection of sound waves.
PS 0116L General Physics II Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: PS 0116.This laboratory provides students with a greater understanding ofelectromagnetic phenomena, wave phenomena, and optics, and supportsPS 116. Measurements of microscopic quantities, like the chargeand mass of the electron, give students an opportunity to explorethe structure of matter. Other experiments involve the physics ofelectrical currents, electric properties of bulk matter, magnetic ﬁeldsand their effect on beams, wave phenomena, and the nature of lightand its interaction with optical materials. This course trains studentsin experimental measurements, data manipulation and analysis, erroranalysis, deductive thinking, and instrumentation. Students complete aweekly lab report.PS 0204L Modern Experimental Methods Lab2 CreditsFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisite: PS 0285.This course offers lab experience in modern experimental methods andtechniques. It involves lab investigation of fundamental concepts inmodern physics including atomic, nuclear, solid-state, X-ray, acoustic,superconductivity, and quantum physics. Lab procedures emphasizehands-on work with basic experimental equipment such as vacuumsystems, power supplies, electronics and instrumentation, detectors,diagnostic techniques, computer interfaces, data acquisition and control,hardware and software, etc. This lab course gives students maximumopportunity to work on their own with minimum supervision.PS 0206L Modern Optics Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeePrerequisite: PS 0222 (concurrency allowed).In this lab course, student experiments include measurement of thephotoelectric effect, electro-optic phenomena, diffraction phenomena,spectroscopy, interferometry, interference effects, and opticalheterodyning. Students may - and are encouraged to - develop relevantexperiments. The course requires comprehensive lab reports.PS 0212 Circuit Analysis and Analog Systems3 CreditsCorequisite: PS 0212L.Prerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116.This course introduces students to the theory and practice of basicelectronics and linear/analog circuitry. Topics include Kirchhoff's lawsand applications; resistor circuits; concepts of capacitive and inductivereactance; impedance calculation using vector and complex notation;DC, AC, and transient circuit behavior; operation of basic solid statedevices (diodes, junction transistors, FETs, SCRs); operational ampliﬁers;active and passive ﬁlters; feedback techniques; and frequency dependenteffects. The basic laws and theorems of circuit analysis are introduced.PS 0212L Circuit Analysis and Analog Systems Lab1 CreditFee: $55 Science Lab FeeCorequisite: PS 0212.Students learn the use of basic laboratory test equipment such asthe digital volt-ohm-amp meter, function generator, oscilloscope, andfrequency counter. Bread boarding techniques are utilized to assembleand test various linear/analog circuits. Simulation software is introduced.PS 0215 Computational Physics3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116.In this course students will learn numerical methods to solve scientiﬁcproblems and to integrate the use of the computer into their research.The course will cover numerical methods to solve integrals, differentialequations, partial differential equations, systems of linear equations, andto model random processes. Problems that will be solved in this classinclude: Laplace equation, chaotic pendulum, Schrodinger's equation, andmagnetic and electric ﬁeld calculations. The programming languages thatwill be used in this course are high level languages, such as C and C++,whose basic syntax will be taught in class.PS 0222 Modern Optics3 CreditsCorequisite: PS 0206L.Prerequisite: PS 0285.Starting with a review of electromagnetic wave theory and the differentialwave equation, this course covers the propagation of light from ascattering and an electromagnetic wave phenomena point of view.The course investigates superposition, polarization, interference, anddiffraction in detail and discusses the photon theory of light along withthe photoelectric effect. The course covers the basic theory of coherencewith its contemporary application to lasers and additional selected topicsin applied optical devices, stressing the application of theory to devicesand observations.PS 0226 Classical Mechanics3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116.The formulation of classical mechanics represents a major milestonein our intellectual and technological history as the ﬁrst mathematicalabstraction of physical theory from empirical observations. Thisachievement is rightly accorded to Isaac Newton, who ﬁrst translatedthe interpretation of various physical observations into a compactmathematical theory. More than three centuries of experience indicatethat mechanical behavior in the everyday domain can be understood fromNewton's theories. Topics in this course include elementary dynamicsin one and two dimensions, gravitational forces and potentials, free andforced harmonic oscillations, central ﬁelds and the motions of planetsand satellites, Lagrange's and Hamilton's equations, small oscillations,and normal mode analysis.PS 0241 Thermal and Statistical Physics3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0285.Thermodynamics, viewed primarily as the science that deals with energytransformations and the relationships between properties of systems,is a fairly modern science. As its name implies, thermodynamics dealswith heat and power; originally, this now broad subject dealt almostexclusively with heat engines. This course begins with a review of thethree fundamental laws of thermodynamics. Additional topics include thekinetic theory of gasses and modern statistical mechanics.PS 0255 Introduction to Astrophysics3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0285.This course is an introduction to modern astronomy and astrophysics.Starting from basic physical principles, we will begin with a number ofpractical problems in observational astronomy: the location of stars inthe sky, optical telescopes and detectors, and measuring the brightnessof stars and galaxies. From here, we will go on to discuss the formation,evolution, and death of stars and how these astronomical processes haveinfluenced the world around us. Finally, we will end with a discussion ofcosmological evolution from the big bang onward.
PS 0260 Introduction to Biomedical Optics3 CreditsCorequisite: MA 0251.Prerequisite: PS 0116.This Introduction to Biomedical Optics course provides an opportunityfor students to be introduced to an exciting area in biophotonics.It would introduce students to some of the optical methods in non-invasive medical diagnostics and imaging. Students would learn aboutbasics of tissue optics, elastic scattering, absorption, fluorescenceand Raman spectroscopies, and photon transport in random media,Monte Carlo simulations, microscopy, ultrafast lasers and detectionsystems. Applications would include non-invasive detection of cancer,atherosclerosis, and optical tomography.PS 0271 Electricity and Magnetism I3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116, MA 0251.This lecture course covers the foundations of electric and magneticphenomena. Topics include electrostatics and the concepts of theelectric ﬁeld, flux, and potential; Coulomb's law and Gauss's law andtheir applications; vector and scalar ﬁelds and vector operators; electricenergy of systems of charges; dipole ﬁelds and Laplace's equation;moving charges and currents; Ampere's law; and magnetic ﬁelds andforces.PS 0285 Modern Physics3 CreditsCorequisite: MA 0245.Prerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116.This course introduces modern physics, i.e., the physics of the 20thcentury. The basic ideas that led to the formulation of quantummechanics together with Einstein's theories of relativity provided a meansto explore many new aspects of the physical world. This course examinesthe discovery of quanta of energy; Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity;the Bohr model of the atom; wave mechanics, angular momentum, andspin; various aspects of quantum mechanics that explain much of thesubatomic world; and aspects of atomic and nuclear physics includingsolid-state physics and superconductivity. The course also examinesseveral of the major experimental observations that support and conﬁrmthese new theories.PS 0371 Electricity and Magnetism II3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0271.This lecture course is a continuation of PS 0271, covering additionaltopics in electric and magnetic phenomena. Topics include Faraday'slaws and induced electromotive force; electric and magnetic ﬁeldsin matter; methods of solving boundary value problems; Maxwell'sequations in integral and differential form; electromagnetic radiationand wave propagation; and Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity forelectrodynamics.PS 0386 Quantum Physics3 CreditsPrerequisites: MA 0331, PS 0226, PS 0285.This course introduces students to the physical concepts andmathematical formulations of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics.Topics include the Schrodinger wave equation, Fourier techniques andexpectation values, operator formalism, angular momentum, centralforces, matrix representations, and approximation methods.PS 0387 Introduction to Condensed Matter3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0386.Condensed matter physics is the study of the condensed phases ofmatter where atoms and molecules interact strongly and bind togetherto form solids and fluids governed by the laws of electromagnetism,quantum mechanics, and statistical physics. Condensed matter researchforms the largest area of research in physics with applications inchemistry, photonics, semiconductor and material science, and nano-technology. Students will be introduced to several topics includingcrystal structure, crystal binding, thermal properties based on quantizedvibrations (phonons), free-electron Fermi-gas, origin of the energy bands,semi-conductor crystals and superconductivity.PS 0388 Elementary Particles and Nuclear Physics3 CreditsPrerequisite: PS 0386.This course begins with a review of elementary particles, their propertiesand classiﬁcation, and their nuclear and electromagnetic interactions. Itproceeds with the study of bound nuclear systems, conditions for nuclearstability, and radioactive decay modes. The course concludes with anexamination of particle accelerators and other nuclear experimentalfacilities.PS 0390 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisites: PS 0115, PS 0116, PS 0285.This course covers the following content: condensed matter physics,numerical analysis and computational physics, and wave phenomenaand quantum phenomena. Condensed matter topics include mechanical,thermal, and electric properties of matter; magnetism; superconductivity;and magnetic resonance. Topics in numerical analysis and computationalphysics include solutions of differential equations, boundary valueand eigenvalue problems, special functions and Gaussian quadrature,and matrix operations. Topics in wave phenomena include electric andmechanical oscillators, coupled oscillators, transverse and longitudinalwaves, waves on transmission lines, and electromagnetic waves.Quantum phenomena include advanced topics in quantum mechanicswith applications in the structure of nuclei, atoms, molecules, metals,crystal lattices, semiconductors, and superconductors.PS 0391 Theoretical/Experimental Capstone1-4 CreditsThis course provides opportunities for intensive investigation,experimental or theoretical, of selected topics at an advanced level underthe guidance of a faculty member. Participation in this course is requiredof all seniors. Credit by arrangement.PS 0392 Theoretical/Experimental Capstone1-4 CreditsThis course provides opportunities for intensive investigation,experimental or theoretical, of selected topics at an advanced level underthe guidance of a faculty member. Participation in this course is requiredof all seniors. Credit by arrangement.PS 0399 Independent Study1 or 2 CreditsThis course provides opportunities to physics majors in their junior year,and to sophomores by permission of the department Chair, to pursueindependent studies in selected areas of physics, under the mentorshipof a faculty member. The course aims to guide students in using themethods of scientiﬁc inquiry to explore subjects in an area of mutualinterest to the student and teacher. In the process, students will getpersonal attention and hands-on experience, and will develop further theiranalytical and experimental skills.
Politics (PO)PO 0011 Introduction to American Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsStudents examine the American political system and the Americanpolitical culture; consider the major political institutions in relation topolicy perspectives; examine the ability of the political system to dealwith societal problems; and analyze proposals for reform of the politicalsystem.PO 0012 Introduction to Comparative Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PMCP Politics Major: Comparative Politics, WDIV WorldDiversityThis course introduces students to the concepts and theories used tounderstand the structures and processes of diverse political systems.Comparing similarities and differences between different politicalsystems will enable students to identify interesting questions aboutpolitics in speciﬁc countries, and to make systematic comparisonsacross countries.PO 0014 Introduction to Political Theory3 CreditsAttributes: PMPT Politics Major: Political TheoryThis course introduces students to the ﬁeld of Western political theory. Itanalyzes the liberal political theories of Thomas Hobbes, Jean-JacquesRousseau, John Locke, J.S. Mill, and Karl Marx, and compares andcontrasts them to a variety of communitarian, socialist, and anarchistpolitical theories.PO 0112 21st Century Power Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PMPT Politics Major: Political TheoryHow does power operate in the 21st century? This course engages thisquestion by focusing on how contemporary thinkers from the GlobalNorth and South assess the world in which we live. The course willtake on issues of globalization, democratization, cosmopolitanism,poverty, race, gender, citizenship, and environmentalism. The work of keythinkers such as Karl Marx, Hannah Arendt, Franz Fanon, Julius Nyrere,Michel Foucault, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Judith Butler, and WendyBrown will be examined. These theorists present a critical assessmentof the nature and value of contemporary society's cherished ideals ofsocial and economic progress, secularization, and scientiﬁc reason, andindividual autonomy and liberty. This course explores and evaluates thesecontroversial critiques of life that shape our understanding power in the21st century.PO 0115 Introduction to the Study of Peace and Justice3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, EDCG EducationalStudies Cognate, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, PMAP Politics Major:American PoliticsThis course introduces students to the concepts of peace and justice,the connections between them, and the relationship of these conceptsto the idea of faith. The course focuses on case studies beginning withan analysis of the crisis of America's cities and ﬁnds the causes in de-industrialization and its resulting poverty. In both cases, the courseviews poverty as the effect of unjust economic and social structuresincluding exaggerated military budgets at home and the militarizationof developing countries. Examining these fundamental problems inpeace and justice, according to the principles of Marxism, liberalism, andCatholicism, provides a theoretical basis for the study. Each of thesetraditions has its own perspective for understanding these problems andfor responding to them. In this way the course provides an awareness ofthe major problems in peace and justice as well as an understanding ofthe different ways to think about them.PO 0116 Utopian Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PMPT Politics Major: Political TheoryThis course examines the nature and function of utopian thinking andutopian communities. What is the value of utopian reflection? What formsof critical thinking and imaginative speculation does it enable? Whatare the limits to or dangers of utopian thought and practice? What kindsof challenges do utopian communities face? This course explores andcritically assesses utopian, and dystopian themes from utopian ﬁction,political theory, science ﬁction, and popular culture. The course involvesstudents in building model utopias that resolve major world problems.PO 0118 American Political Thought3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, PMPT Politics Major: Political TheoryThis course considers the philosophical roots of American politicalthought and the influence of the American revolutionaries, constitution-makers, Federalists, Jeffersonians, Jacksonians, Alexis de Tocqueville,examiners of the welfare state, pragmatists, and new frontiersmen on thecontemporary American mind and institutions. The course also coverschallenges and reform of the American political system within the scopeof political science through an application of the concepts of humannature, idealism, constitutional power, and nationalism.PO 0119 Sex, Sexuality, and Gender3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGFWomen, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course focuses on how men and women ally together and separatelyto alter the landscape of sex, sexuality, and gender in the U.S. as part ofa global wave of political change. The course examines how race, class,religion, age, disability, and other identity variables intersect with maleand female, masculine and feminine, and the full range of sexualities inorder to understand the theories and practices related to identity thatshape twenty-ﬁrst century politics.PO 0123 Modern Political Ideologies3 CreditsAttributes: ISIC Italian Studies: Italy Component, PJST Peace and JusticeStudies, PMPT Politics Major: Political TheoryThis course primarily examines the political belief systems in the UnitedStates including conservatism, liberalism, democratic socialism, andthe idea of industrial policy. It analyzes these "isms" with reference todemocracy's ability to deal with the contemporary problems of Americansociety. It also explores Marxism in terms of the basic political andeconomic ideas of Marx and Engels as well as the modiﬁcations madein their system by Lenin; discusses the basic concepts of racism; andbriefly analyzes the meaning of totalitarianism.PO 0127 United Nations Security Council Crisis Simulation3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, WDIV WorldDiversityThis course gives students a hands-on learning experience in worlddiversity by simulating a United Nations Security Council crisis ininternational peace and security. The objective is to introduce students tothe challenges of global governance in light of the different perspectivesthey encounter representing different constituencies of the UN SecurityCouncil who come from diverse cultural, historical, and geo-politicalregions of the world. A key goal of the course is to bring to lightwhether and how power disparities limit the global South's effectiverepresentation, and the stakes in reform of the Security Council. While thetopic of the simulation will vary, the focus is on a crisis in a non-Westernregion of the world.
PO 0129 Politics of Humanitarian Action3 CreditsAttributes: PMIR Politics Major: International Relations, WDIV WorldDiversityThis course introduces students to complex humanitarian crisesand the challenges of responding. Students explore why the often-troubled governance practices of humanitarian intervention makesthis a highly contested, yet indispensable arena of global politics.The course examines enduring political and normative tensions atthe core of the international humanitarian system run by states, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the United Nations and its leadagencies, and increasingly, the private sector. Students use criticaltheories, ethical frameworks and other skillsets to explore questions suchas the accountability of humanitarian actors to the people they aid in risk-laden operational environments.PO 0130 International Relations: Theories and Challenges3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PJST Peaceand Justice StudiesThis course introduces International Relations (IR) theories to students,providing concepts, frameworks and approaches that will help them makesense of global politics historically and today in a systematic and criticalmanner. The goal of the course is to familiarize students with thesetools and to help them use them to understand and address challengesat a global scale, particularly different manifestations of violence,development and social injustice, including from war to economic, social,gendered, and political marginalization.PO 0131 International Politics and the Environment3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, EVSS Environmental Studies: SocialScience, PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsThis course examines important issues in the practice and studyof international environmental policy. The course consists of fourinterrelated sections designed to provide the factual knowledge andconceptual frameworks required for working in this ﬁeld: the process anddifﬁculty of creating effective International environmental policy; factorsthat assist effective policy; history, trends and actors; and key currentissues including climate change, biodiversity, toxic pollution, trade andthe environment, sustainable development, and environment and security,among others.PO 0132 Climate Change: Politics and Policy3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, HACA Humanitarian Action MinorContext Course, PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsThis course examines key political, scientiﬁc and economic issuessurrounding global climate change. Topics include: the causes andimpacts of climate change; policy-making under uncertainty; keytechnological, energy and economic issues; and, in particular, climatepolicy at the global, national, state and local levels; Students will gain theability to understand and analyze climate policy options at the global,national and local levels.PO 0133 United States Foreign Policy3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsHow is foreign policy made in the United States? This course examinesthe impact of domestic and international actors and processes inthe formation and conduct of United States foreign policy. It alsoprovides a historical background on the basis of which it analyzescontemporary United States economic foreign policy, security foreignpolicy, environmental and energy foreign policy and the promotion ofdemocracy and human rights in different regions of the world, includingAsia, Latin America, Western Europe, Africa and the Middle East.PO 0134 Globalization: Who Rules the World?3 CreditsAttributes: PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsIn a globalizing world, understanding the link between wealth and poweris increasingly important. This course seeks to explore the internationaland global context of the intersection of politics and the economy today.It examines the impact of globalization on states, markets, societies,businesses, and people by posing such questions as "In whose interest?"and "Who beneﬁts?"PO 0135 International Law3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, PMIR Politics Major: International RelationsThis course is an introduction to international law, which addresses thequestions of what is international law, who makes international law andwho is bound by it, and why states and other actors obey internationallaw even though there is not world government to enforce it. The coursealso introduces students to the substance of international law ondifferent areas such as human rights, the environment and the use offorce in international politics. Finally, the course provides a practicaloverview to the United Nations system, focusing both on the ﬁve principalorgans (the Security Council, the General Assembly, the Secretariat,ECOSOC and the International Court of Justice) and the specializedagencies (UNICEF, UNDP, and more).PO 0136 Gender, War, and Peace3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PMIRPolitics Major: International Relations, WDIV World Diversity, WSGFWomen, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course examines the complexities of the gendered impact ofwar on men, women, families and children. Students learn aboutthe gendered dimensions of war institutions, social structures andnarratives of war. They explore the topic especially from the voices andperspectives of women in war zones and post-conflict settings aroundthe world, including historical memories. Students learn how the forces ofglobalization and existing conditions of structural violence make womenextremely vulnerable as societies slide toward war.PO 0137 Threats to Global Security in the 21st Century3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PMIRPolitics Major: International RelationsThis course is designed as an introduction to global security. It considers,traditional and new security topics, from interstate and civil wars toenvironmental degradation and famines. We will look at these topicsthrough the lenses of major paradigms in International Relations (IR)theory, such as Realism, Liberalism and Constructivism and also from theperspective of Feminist, Critical and Peace studies' theories. In additionto learning to think about global security in a systematic and criticalway, in this this course we will consider the political, ethical and socialdimensions of threats to global security today.
PO 0138 Border Politics3 CreditsAttributes: HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, PMIR Politics Major: International Relations, WDIVWorld DiversityThis course explores how border politics have evolved from historicalpractices of territoriality and the rise of the nation-state system, includingthe social construction of "imagined communities" and the boundariesthat deﬁne them. Yet this system faces many challenges. Drawing fromcritical theories of identity, state formation and intersectionality, studentsexplore erosions of state sovereignty through globalization, climatechange, crisis migration, refugee flows, asylum seekers, transnationalcrime and terrorism. As case studies from the global north and southillustrate, states are increasingly turning to global and domesticdisciplinary regimes to wall up, fence out, surveillance, detain and deportthe "other." Students examine these trends in the context of the moral,political, security, corporeal and human rights questions at stake.PO 0139 European Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ISIC Italian Studies: Italy Component, ISIF Italian Studies: Italy-Focused, PMCP Politics Major: Comparative PoliticsThis analysis of political institutions and dynamics of Great Britain,France, Germany, and Italy emphasizes the relationship between thepolitical culture and the political system and analyzes alternate methodsof dealing with societal problems.PO 0140 Islam and Muslim Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ISIC Italian Studies: Italy Component, PMCP Politics Major:Comparative Politics, WDIV World DiversityIslam is most often treated as a monolithic force when in fact therelationship between Islam, politics, and society is varied and dynamic.The aim of this course is to introduce students to the pluralism of Islam-influenced practices (such as in politics, education, charitable aid, andbusiness) drawing on examples from Turkey, Indonesia, Central Asia andChina.PO 0141 African Politics3 CreditsAttributes: BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, BSSS Black Studies: Socialand Behavioral Sciences, PMCP Politics Major: Comparative Politics,WDIV World DiversityThis course examines political patterns in Africa with an emphasis onthe relationships between politics and culture, and politics and economy.Themes and concepts, not country studies, structure the course, whichextracts patterns that are universal or typical in sub-Saharan Africa,examines the colonial legacy on which contemporary states build,and considers the political problematic that the colonial experienceimparts with respect to cultural issues of identity, tribalism, and ethnicityin Africa. The course also examines the role of force and violence inconsolidating political rule, the economic constraints that fetter Africa,and considers prospects for Africa's politics.PO 0142 Latin American Politics3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, PMCP Politics Major: ComparativePolitics, WDIV World DiversityThis course examines contemporary Latin American politics, withparticular attention to the challenges and opportunities for democracyand human rights in the region. In order to do this, the course providesa historical background that examines the challenges and opportunitiespresented by domestic and international dynamics in the region. Thecourse covers the causes and consequences of democratic breakdownsin the region and the transition to democracy in the later part ofthe twentieth century. It also addresses the difﬁculties these youngdemocracies face today and the continuous and uneven efforts toadvance human rights in the region.PO 0143 Caribbean Politics3 CreditsAttributes: BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, PMCP PoliticsMajor: Comparative Politics, WDIV World DiversityRacism and ethnic conflict, colonialism and neocolonialism, gratingpoverty and bustling tourism all have their impact on the politics ofthese struggling countries. This course examines migration across theﬁrst world's borders in countries that include Cuba, Puerto Rico, theDominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Trinidad, Guyana, and Suriname.Students complete a research project.PO 0144 Middle Eastern Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, PMCP Politics Major:Comparative Politics, WDIV World DiversityThis course examines the modern Middle East by familiarizing studentswith the most signiﬁcant contemporary problems and controversiesin the region. Themes and concepts, not individual country studies,structure the course. Some of the topics covered are youth, war,revolution, oil, political Islam, economic reform, and the Arab spring.PO 0145 East Asian Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PMCP Politics Major: Comparative Politics, WDIV WorldDiversityThis course examines the domestic politics of Asian countries. Asia is avibrant region politically and economically, and is very important to theUnited States for international security and economic stability. Given itsimportance, this course provides broad and essential knowledge aboutAsian nations. The course begins with historical background of variouscountries in Asia, and then examines politics in selected Asian countries.Country studies are intended to introduce major issues in comparativepolitics such as democracy, economic development, ideology andpolitical conflict.PO 0147 Northern Ireland: The Politics of War and Peace3 CreditsAttributes: CAOT Catholic Studies: Non-Religious Studies, PJST Peaceand Justice Studies, PMCP Politics Major: Comparative PoliticsThis course focuses on "the Troubles" in Northern Ireland from 1969to the present beginning with historical background that emphasizesEngland's role from the 17th century through the present. It examines the20th century conflict primarily as a national liberation struggle against asectarian regime in the North supported by England. The course followsa chronological format starting with the civil rights marches in the late1960's, the state repression that followed and subsequent communityresponses including the hunger strikes and electoral campaigns. Itconcludes with the peace process and grassroots efforts by formerparamilitaries from both Catholic and Protestant communities to worktogether on issues of common concern.PO 0148 Political Violence3 CreditsAttributes: PMCP Politics Major: Comparative PoliticsThis course offers a comparative study of political violence including civilwar, terrorism, and separatist movements. We will examine a variety oftheoretical and empirical approaches to violence. The course is designedto introduce students to core debates as well as cutting edge research onviolence. Students will also learn about political violence across the globethrough single country studies.
PO 0149 The Development Gap: Can It Be Closed?3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, PMCP Politics Major:Comparative Politics, WDIV World DiversityThis course introduces a comparative approach to studying the forcesaffecting development in the Third World. Examples are selectively drawnfrom Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. It examines theroots of wealth and poverty, obstacles to development, responses toglobalization, and current debates over the development prospects of theThird World.PO 0150 Urban Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, PMAP Politics Major:American PoliticsThis course examines structures and processes of urban politics andconsiders the major participants and policy areas of urban politicalprocesses. It sets the evolution of urban areas in historical perspective,discusses major contemporary problems, and analyzes alternativesolutions.PO 0153 The Politics of Race, Class, and Gender3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, PMPTPolitics Major: Political Theory, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course investigates how race, class, and gender function inAmerican political culture. Students explore how the theoretical ideas ofcentral thinkers such as Thomas Jefferson, Martin Luther King Jr., andSusan B. Anthony shape the political practices of the people who expressthemselves in songs, speeches, art, and music. The focus on race, class,and gender enables students to engage with historically challengingquestions about equality, freedom, individualism, republicanism,liberalism, and American exceptionalism from alternative perspectives.The course does so by assessing whether or not the contemporary HipHop movement can overcome the barriers of race, class, and gender.PO 0155 Public Administration3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, PMAP Politics Major:American PoliticsThe course focuses on the role of the bureaucracy within the politicalprocess, examining the problems of efﬁciency and accountability, andstudying the classic models of bureaucratic organization and functionin juxtaposition to the reality of bureaucratic operation. It analyzesproposed reforms to determine the viability of change.PO 0161 The American Presidency3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASPO American Studies:Politics, ASUP American Studies Upper Level, PMAP Politics Major:American PoliticsThe course will examine the expansion of presidential powers by20th-21st century modern presidents, focusing on the constitutionaland political development in the President's role as chief executive,legislative leader, and administrative head of state. It will also exploreand seek explanations for differences and patterns among presidentsin their foreign and domestic policy success, evaluating changes in therecruitment process (primaries, conventions and elections), issues ofpsychology, race, religion, economic forces, political parties, 'politicaltime', and media.PO 0162 United States Congress3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course ﬁrstly examines the development of rules, procedures, andstructures of Congress as the foremost institution of representationwithin American democracy, exploring its place in contemporaryAmerican politics and its often-contentious relationship with the otherbranches of national government, the Presidency and Courts. It will alsointroduce some primary theoretical approaches to the study of Congressas a deliberative body designed to produce national policy outcomes.Finally, it will develop students' understanding of individual membersof Congress - their relationship to constituents, their differing styles ofrepresentation, and the effects of race, gender, ideology, and money ontheir legislative work.PO 0163 Supreme Court3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis examination of the politics of the Supreme Court analyzes therelationship between the Court and the remainder of the politicalsystem; examines the Court's treatment of government power includingcommerce clause, taxing power, and relations between the branches; andemphasizes the political consequences of Court decisions.PO 0164 Supreme Court II3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis examination of the individual and the Court pays direct attentionto Supreme Court decisions regarding civil liberties, including freedomsof speech, press, religion, and assembly. It also examines the rights ofaccused persons and the 14th amendment equal protection, emphasizingthe political implications of these decisions as well as the politicalenvironment in which the Court functions.PO 0165 Political Parties and Interest Groups3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS BlackStudies: Social and Behavioral Sciences, PMAP Politics Major: AmericanPolitics, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course examines various linkage models that describerepresentation of citizens by leaders. Moreover, it examines politicalparties, interest groups, and public opinion in terms of their contributionsto popular control of American politics. What mechanisms do citizenshave to gain compliance for their policy preferences? How responsiveare decision makers in the American system to citizens' demands? Thecourse considers these and other questions.PO 0166 American Public Policy3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course examines the policy process in the United States byassessing a variety of contemporary policy issues. Students investigatedifferent policy domains to uncover the politics and societal mythsaffecting different stages of the complicated policy process, payingspecial attention to people and institutions that formally and informallyinfluence public policy in the United States, including media, electedofﬁcials, bureaucrats, consumers, private citizens, workers, politicalactivists, corporations, interest groups, lobbyists, and political parties.
PO 0167 Media and Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, PMAP Politics Major:American PoliticsThis course examines the impact of the media on the American politicalsystem and, conversely, how government attempts to influence themedia for its purposes, and implications of the electronic media for ademocratic and informed society. The course pays close attention to themedia's impact on national elections and analyzes the media as an agentof political socialization.PO 0169 United States Environmental Politics and Policy3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, EVSS Environmental Studies: SocialScience, PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course introduces students to the processes, actors, casual factorsand theoretical approaches central to the creation and implementationof US environmental policy. The ﬁrst section examines the history ofUS environmental politics, the policy process, and prominent theoriesthat seek to explain that process. The second examines the role of keyinstitutions, including the President, Congress, courts, federal agencies,environmental groups and corporations. The third section examineskey current issues, including risk assessments, economic tools, air andwater pollution, toxic chemicals, public lands endangered species, watershortages, and climate change.PO 0170 The Battle Over Family Values in American Politics3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PMAP Politics Major: American Politics, WSGF Women,Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedContemporary American politics is marked by numerous debatesabout the family in American society. Issues of gay marriage, abortion,abstinence/ pre-marital sex, shifting gender roles within the family, andnew parenting and reproductive methods are some of the hotly debatedpolicy issues, illustrating the political struggle to deﬁne the soul ofAmerica and the role of the family within. This course explores suchcontemporary political debates over the family, their policy implicationsand signiﬁcance to current elections, also examining the historicalcontext and previous ideological battles that characterize the tumultuousrelationship between the family and the American state. Seminar format.PO 0171 State and Local Politics3 CreditsAttributes: PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course examines the role of state and local governments withinthe United States. State and local governments are unique subnationalgovernments with their own political culture and identity and verygreatly within and across the American political system. This courseexplores the political processes and the institutions of state and localgovernments. The course highlights the multifaceted, and often difﬁcult,issues facing sub-national governments; the philosophies of state andlocal governments; their responsibility and function regarding electionadministration and voting; and their role within the larger nationalgovernment.PO 0172 Public Opinion and Polling3 CreditsAttributes: PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsA central feature to American democracy is that the public must playan active role in governing. This course invites students to think aboutand reflect on the role of public opinion, the tools used to measure it, andits impact on policies and elections, in American democracy. Studentswill examine what public opinion is, publics’ knowledge of politics, howcitizens are socialized politically, group differences in public opinions,and various methods employed to measure public opinion. By the end ofthe course, you will be able to determine when and how public opinioninfluences various aspects of American politics.PO 0173 Campaigns and Elections3 CreditsAttributes: PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsIn a democratic political system, elections are the means by which thetransition of power occurs. Thus, understanding the nature of Americanelections and campaigns is necessary to understand our political system.This class focuses on American elections: discussing how the actionsof the players influence outcomes, the behavior of voters, the politicsof election administration, and the laws that govern the rules to thegame. We will observe and analyze both empirical research and thereality of campaigns today as both have signiﬁcant implications for ourdemocracy.PO 0190 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course offers a focused examination of a signiﬁcant political issueor topic chosen from the areas of American Politics and Public Policy,Political Theory, Comparative Politics, and International Relations.Content will vary in successive offerings of this course. May be repeatedfor credit when topic varies. Prerequisite: six hours of politics credits orpermission of instructorPO 0190H Special Topics: Impeachment and the 25thAmendment3 CreditsAttributes: PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course reviews the impeachment and removal process from anhistorical, constitutional, legal, and political perspective. A presidentcan be impeached for "treason," "bribery," or other "high crimes andmisdemeanors." What do these terms mean? How can a president beremoved under the 25th Amendment if he/she becomes disabled? Thecourse emphasizes student participation, and research on historical andcontemporary cases, including drafting articles of impeachment anddefense against them. This course should be of interest to students withsome background or interest in the U.S. political and legal processes.PO 0198 Research Methods3 CreditsAttributes: PMAP Politics Major: American PoliticsThis course is designed to help students understand the methodologicalprocess to scientiﬁc inquiries. Students will learn how to properly studyand think scientiﬁcally about political science and politics. This classwill teach students how to identify research questions about the politicalworld, generate meaningful measurements of the concepts being studied,create a research design for collecting data (i.e. evidence), constructtestable hypotheses, conduct the necessary statistical analysis to testthe hypotheses, interpret the results of the statistical analysis, and applythese results to the original theory of inquiry in a meaningful way.
PO 0210 Seminar on Global Environmental Politics3 CreditsAttributes: EVME Environmental Studies Major Elective, EVPEEnvironmental Studies Elective, PMIR Politics Major: InternationalRelationsThe causes, consequences and potential solutions to environmentalproblems are increasingly important subjects in global politics. Thisseminar explores critical, current issues in the theory and practiceof global environmental politics. Readings and class discussionexamine important new debates, including those on: reason for policyeffectiveness; international regimes; accountability; the 2015 Parisclimate agreement; why global ozone policy remains a relatively uniqueexample of effective global environmental policy; the most prominenttheoretical lenses employed by researchers and policy-makers; and theactivities of international institutions.PO 0220 Seminar on Feminist Theory3 CreditsAttributes: ASPO American Studies: Politics, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, PMPT Politics Major:Political Theory, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedThis course explores advanced topics in feminist theory, examininga number of trends in contemporary feminist theory. Topics includeconceptions of the female body in Western culture, feminist theories ofthe family, global feminisms, theories of feminist subjectivity and genderperformativity, and the intersections among gender, race, class, andsexuality.PO 0296 State Legislature Internship6 CreditsPrerequisites: PO 0011, two other politics courses.Politics majors participate in the Connecticut General AssemblyLegislative Internship Program, where students become acquaintedwith the legislative process by serving as aides to a legislator. Studentscomplete a required research paper. Students must have a GPA of 3.0 orhigher. Enrollment by departmental permission only.PO 0297 Washington Semester Internship15 CreditsPrerequisites: PO 0011, two other politics courses.Politics majors work full-time as interns in a variety of public and privatesector positions in the nation's capital, giving them the opportunity toexperience governmental problems ﬁrsthand and apply what they havelearned. Students earn nine credits for working as an intern, three for acourse taken in Washington, DC, and for a major research paper. Studentsmust have a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Enrollment by departmental permissiononly.PO 0298 Internship3 or 4 CreditsPrerequisites: Three politics courses.Politics majors gain ﬁrsthand experience working off campus in ﬁeldsrelated to their major. Typically, an internship requires 10 to 12 hours perweek on site. The internship requires a journal and a term paper. An on-site supervisor and a politics professor evaluate student work. Studentsmust have a GPA or 3.0 or higher. Enrollment by departmental permissiononly.PO 0344 Seminar on the Middle East3 CreditsAttributes: PMCP Politics Major: Comparative PoliticsThe affairs of the Middle East continue to engage a great deal ofinternational attention. This course offers the opportunity to examinea signiﬁcant problem or issue concerning politics in the MENA (MiddleEast and North Africa) region conducted in a seminar format. In varioussemesters the seminar may be taught with a different focus.PO 0390 Politics Seminar3 CreditsThis course offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant political issueor topic and is conducted in a seminar format and contains a signiﬁcantresearch component. Open only to juniors and seniors by permission ofthe instructor.PO 0398 Independent Study/Research1-3 CreditsPrerequisites: PO 0011, two other politics courses.Upon request and by agreement with an individual professor in thedepartment, a politics major may conduct a one-semester independentstudy on a deﬁned research topic or ﬁeld of study. Students must have aGPA of 3.0 or higher. Enrollment by departmental permission only.Portuguese (PG)PG 0110 Elementary Brazilian Portuguese I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Portuguese or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, is designed to present the student withthe essentials of pronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing studentsto acquire the skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Culturesare explored through a variety of media. The course will broaden thestudents' understanding of the cultures of the different countries wherePortuguese is spoken, especially Brazil.PG 0111 Elementary Brazilian Portuguese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: PG 0110.This course, a continuation of PG 0110, is designed to present thestudent with the essentials of pronunciation, structure, and usage,allowing students to acquire the skills of listening, speaking, reading,and writing. Cultures are explored through a variety of media. The coursewill broaden the students' understanding of the cultures of the differentcountries where Portuguese is spoken, especially Brazil.PG 0210 Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese I3 CreditsPrerequisite: PG 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, continues to buildupon the skills acquired in the ﬁrst-year sequence. The course focuses onincreasing the development of communication and comprehension skillswhile exploring in more depth the complexity of the Brazilian Portugueselanguage. Emphasis is placed on the development of listening, speaking,reading, and writing skills, as well as the development of cultural literacy.Cultural emphasis is placed on both Brazil and the Lusophone world.PG 0211 Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese II3 CreditsPrerequisite: PG 0210.This course, a continuation of PG 0210, continues to build upon the skillsacquired in the ﬁrst-year sequence. The course focuses on increasing thedevelopment of communication and comprehension skills while exploringin more depth the complexity of the Brazilian Portuguese language.Emphasis is placed on the development of listening, speaking, reading,and writing skills, as well as the development of cultural literacy. Culturalemphasis is placed on both Brazil and the Lusophone world.Psychology (PY)PY 0098 Comprehensive Exam in Applied Psychology0 CreditsThe comprehensive examination in applied psychology requirescandidates to demonstrate understanding and mastery of a broad bodyof relevant knowledge in psychology, as well as the ability to synthesizethis knowledge in the creation of sophisticated essays. Candidates areeligible to take the master's comprehensive examination after successfulcompletion of 24 credits, 18 of which must be speciﬁcally in psychology.Cumulative GPA of 3.0 required to sit for the exam.
PY 0099 Comprehensive Examination in School Psychology0 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0430, PY 0433, PY 0435, PY 0436, PY 0438, PY 0446.The comprehensive examination in school psychology requirescandidates to demonstrate understanding and mastery of a broad bodyof relevant knowledge in psychology, as well as the ability to synthesizethis knowledge in the creation of sophisticated essays. Before candidatestake the comprehensive examination, they must have completed, or be inthe process of completing, 24 credits.PY 0101 General Psychology3 CreditsThis course introduces the science of mental processes and behavior byaddressing a range of questions including: How is brain activity relatedto thought and behavior? What does it mean to learn and remembersomething? How do we see, hear, taste, and smell? How do we influenceone another's attitudes and actions? What are the primary factors thatshape a child's mental and emotional development? How and why dowe differ from one another? What are the origins and most effectivetreatments of mental illness?PY 0111 Developmental Psychology for Non-Majors3 CreditsThe course encompasses a developmental psychology approach to thegrowth of the individual from birth to old age, tracing motor, perceptual,language, cognitive, and emotional growth and emphasizing normaldevelopment. Psychology majors and students who have taken PY 0211or PY 0212 may not take this course.PY 0118 Psychology of Death and Dying3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceRecent biomedical research, psychological theory, and clinical experienceprovide the foundation for this life-cycle study of death, dying, andbereavement. Some topics include the funeral process, culturaldifferences, suicide, the hospice approach, end-of-life issues, andeuthanasia.PY 0121 Fundamentals of Social Psychology3 CreditsThis course surveys the major areas of concern in social psychology,emphasizing current issues and research in the ﬁelds of social influenceand conformity, human aggression, prejudice, interpersonal attraction,propaganda, and persuasion. Psychology majors and students who havetaken PY 0221 may not take this course.PY 0122 Psychology and the Law3 CreditsImplicit psychological assumptions about human behavior and how itshould be controlled form the basis for the legal system, particularly ourcriminal justice system, from its code to its enforcement. This courseexamines those assumptions in light of current psycho-legal theory andresearch. It covers the treatment of traditional psychiatric populations(the mentally ill, mentally retarded, homeless) by the justice system incontrast to that received by normal people; clinical issues such as theinsanity defense, predicting dangerousness, the validity of psychiatricexaminations and lie detectors; and jury selection, eyewitness testimony,decision-making, sentencing, and parole.PY 0124 Introduction to Industrial/Organizational Psychology3 CreditsThis course introduces the ﬁeld, contributions, and methods of industrial/organizational psychology. It covers the history of this branch of appliedpsychology and the psychologist's role, along with other scientist-practitioners concerned with the world of work, in developing andmaintaining human work performances and work environments. Thecourse explores current concepts and methods in several specialtieswithin this ﬁeld: personnel, organizational behavior and development,counseling, labor relations, consumer, and engineering/ergonomicpsychology. Topics include recruitment, selection, training anddevelopment, and appraisal of individuals and groups; development andchange of organizational cultures; and relations between organizationsand their stakeholders. The course emphasizes the unique contributionsof psychological science to understanding human work skills, interests,attitudes, motivations, satisfactions and stresses; work careers,management, leadership, communication, group processes, andorganization.PY 0131 Abnormal Psychology for Non-Majors3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceThis course introduces students to the ﬁeld of abnormal behavior,presenting the classic behavior patterns in the classiﬁcation system anddiscussing the possible causes and remediation of such. Psychologymajors and students who have taken PY 0231 may not take this course.PY 0201 Statistics for Life Sciences4 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsCorequisite: PY 0201L.This introductory course in statistical methodology and analysis includesdescriptive statistics such as frequency distributions, central tendency,variability, and correlation as well as an introduction to probability,sampling theory, and tests of signiﬁcance including the t-test, chi-squared, ANOVA, and non-parametric statistics. This course is opento majors in the behavioral, biological, and physical sciences. The labcomplements the course by givingstudents supervised computation andproblem-solving exercises using calculators and computers. Note: Thiscourse does not fulﬁll any core requirements.PY 0201L Statistics Lab0 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsCorequisite: PY 0201.PY 0202 Research Methods in Psychology4 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0101, PY 0201.Building on PY 201 Statistics, this course teaches students to read,evaluate, design, conduct, and report psychological research. Thecourse emphasizes critical thinking and effective oral and writtencommunication. Students work through several different researchprojects.PY 0211 Developmental Psychology for Majors3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.Using a research-oriented approach, this course focuses on the principalthemes, processes, and products of human development from conceptionthrough adolescence. Students who have taken PY 111 or PY 212 maynot take this course.PY 0212 Developmental Psychology for Majors with Lab4 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.Although the content of this course is identical to PY 0211, it offerspsychology majors the opportunity to participate in a laboratoryexperiential learning component in preschool Head Start classrooms.Speciﬁc hands-on assignments complement course material. Studentswho have taken PY 0111 or PY 0211 may not take this course.
PY 0215 Adult Development and Aging3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.This course examines the theoretical underpinning and current researchrelated to a number of key issues in the ﬁeld of adult development andaging including physical, cognitive, and social-emotional changes,diseases, and disorders, as well as successful aging and resiliency.PY 0217 Cross-Cultural Perspectives on Lifespan Development3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0111 or PY 0211 or PY 0212.This course explores various developmental processes and culturalpractices across the lifespan such as rites of passages, marriage,parenting, and gender equality from cultures across the globe. How dodifferent cultures view various developmental milestones? What is similaracross cultures? What is different? Ultimately, from a psychologicalperspective, what exactly is culture? And what variations in the course ofdevelopment can be traced to the influence of culture?PY 0221 Social Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.This course surveys the major areas of concern in social psychology,emphasizing current issues and research in the ﬁelds of social influenceand conformity, human aggression, prejudice, interpersonal attraction,propaganda, and persuasion. Students who have taken PY 0121 may nottake this course.PY 0222 Stereotyping, Prejudice, and Discrimination3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: PY 0101.This course will familiarize students with basic and applied socialpsychological research on stereotyping, prejudice, discrimination, andminority experience. After considering the cognitive and motivationalfactors that contribute to stereotyping and prejudice, we will proceedto examine prejudice in the "real world," exploring literature ondiscrimination-related policies, effects of stereotyping, prejudice, andidentity on achievement and status, and prejudice reduction programs.The course will take a primarily empirical approach, focusing on theways in which scientiﬁc methods and empirical evidence can inform ourunderstanding of these emotionally-charged and socially consequentialissues.PY 0231 Abnormal Psychology for Majors3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisite: PY 0101.This advanced course in abnormal behavior offers an in-depth analysisof current research and theories of psychopathology. It examines thebiological and psychological antecedents of abnormal behavior. Thecourse emphasizes oral and written analysis.PY 0232 Theories of Personality3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101; PY 0111 or PY 0211 or PY 0212.The advanced presentation, analysis, and evaluation of theories ofpersonality from Freud through Skinner broadens student understandingof the normal human personality in terms of theoretical structure,function, and dynamics, while enriching theoretical and historicalunderstanding of the topic.PY 0233 Gender and Mental Health3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: PY 0101.This course will explore the relationship between gender and mentalhealth. Topics to be discussed include gender identity, gender differencesin development throughout the lifespan, the impact of social and societalgender expectations on functioning, as well as gender differences inthe response to trauma and victimization. The course will also includean in-depth examination of sex differences in clinical disorders such asdepression, anxiety, eating disorders, PTSD, and personality disorders.PY 0234 Theories in Psychotherapy3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0101, PY 0231.This course explores similarities and differences across a wide range ofpsychotherapeutic endeavors by means of lectures, ﬁlms, and tapes. Thecourse covers traditional psychoanalytic techniques and more recentinnovations.PY 0236 Human Neuropsychology3 CreditsAttributes: HSST Health Studies: Science and TechnologyPrerequisites: PY 0261.Human neuropsychology is a branch of psychology that focuseson functional structures and systems of the human brain and howthey support various higher order psychological processes (e.g.,learning, attention, executive functioning, higher-order thinking,memory, language, emotion, and motor skills). This course thusconcentrates on the brain-behavior relationships beyond the cellular-molecular level, with an emphasis on typical life-span developmentand common neuropathological syndromes (e.g., strokes, dementia,and traumatic brain injury) in relation to functional structures andsystems of the human brain. Assessment and treatment interventions ofneuropsychological disorders are addressed within this context.PY 0238 Psychological Testing3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0101, PY 0201.This course offers an introduction to the principles of psychological testconstruction, administration and interpretation, and reviews the roles thatthese tests have in a broad clinical assessment and research. Speciﬁcevaluation of test reliability and validity are applied to test constructionand to various published tests of intelligence, achievement, personality,and neuropsychological functioning.PY 0251 Cognitive Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101 or PY 0261.How can we study the mind? This course surveys topics in cognitivepsychology, including attention, memory, thought, imagery, language,problem solving, and decision making. Through lectures, readings,demonstrations, and exercises, students learn about how we think andabout scientiﬁc explorations of the mind.PY 0252 Learning and Applied Behavior Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101 or PY 0261.This course focuses on the environmental determinants of behaviorand behavior change. The ﬁrst two-thirds of the course highlightcurrent concepts and research in Pavlovian and operant conditioning,reinforcement, discrimination, extinction, punishment, avoidance learning,etc. The remaining third of the course emphasizes applied behavioranalysis (aka: behavior modiﬁcation) that is, how these learning conceptsand principles can be successfully applied to education, parenting,therapy, medicine, and everyday life.
PY 0261 Behavioral Neuroscience3 CreditsUnderstanding the brain is one of the last and most challenging frontiersof science. Our brain functioning determines what we see, hear, know,think, or feel. Starting with the molecular and cellular machinery ofneurons and the anatomy of the nervous system, the course proceedsthrough the neural basis of sensation, perception, memory, emotion,language, sexual behavior, drug addiction, depression, schizophrenia, etc.The enormous strides made by neuroscience in the last several decadesshow every sign of continuing and increasing; this course provides thefoundation upon which a thorough understanding of brain-behaviorrelationships can be built.PY 0262 Sensation and Perception3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101 or PY 0261.How do we see, hear, touch, taste, and smell? What about individualdifferences? This course deals with basic sensory mechanisms andwith perceptual processing. Students examine color, depth, pattern, andmotion perception and complete an integrative ﬁnal project. Studentsmay do experiential learning to enrich their understanding of individualdifferences in sensation and perception.PY 0272 Hormones and Behavior3 CreditsPrerequisite: BI 0171, BI 0172; or PY 0261.This upper level course in psychology will provide students with anoverview of behavioral neuroscience, with an emphasis on behavioralendocrinology (hormones and behavior). Topics include the descriptionof major classes of hormones, the techniques used in behavioralneuroscience, and the discussion of hormone-mediated behaviorsincluding male and female reproductive behaviors, stress / fear, memoryand cognition, parental behaviors, ingestive behaviors, and circadianrhythms. After weekly mini-review sessions of the relevant text, thiscourse will emphasize primary research (journal) articles with student-leddiscussions.PY 0274 Drugs and Behavior3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social SciencePrerequisite: PY 0261.This survey course discusses the psychopharmacological properties ofthe more signiﬁcant drugs used for research and by society in general.Drug classes include alcohol and nicotine, depressants and stimulants,tranquilizers, opium derivatives, and hallucinogenic compounds. Thecourse emphasizes drug action sites in the central nervous system aswell as behavioral alteration in controlled and uncontrolled environments.PY 0281 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.This intermediate level course focuses on a speciﬁc issue or topic inone of the major areas of psychology, including but not limited to social,cognitive, clinical, developmental, or biological psychology. In successiveofferings, the content of this course will vary considerably. Thus, studentsmay take more than one section of the course provided the content isdifferent.PY 0281D Special Topics: Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience3 CreditsPrerequisite: BI 0170 or PY 0261.This foundational neuroscience course is focused on learning about thebuilding block of the central nervous system, the neuron (nerve cell).Understanding the structural, biochemical and biophysical properties ofneurons and their role in basic information processing is an importantfoundation for any student wishing to study more complex neural andbehavioral functions. The content of the course will focus on cellularcomponents of the nervous system, genes and neural function, electricalproperties of membranes, synaptic transmission, development of thenervous system, and neuroplasticity. Last, throughout the course,the student will be introduced to examples of how abnormalitiesin the molecular and cellular processes of the brain can lead toneuropsychiatric diseases.PY 0281E Special Topics: Psycholinguistics3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101; sophomore standing.This course explores the phenomenon of language in the mind and brain,including: How do children learn their ﬁrst language(s) and why is itsuch a different experience for an adult to learn a language? What aboutsecond language acquisition? What are language disorders? Is spokenlanguage processed differently from written language? What about signlanguages? The class will include discussions, presentations, and hands-on analysis of language data.PY 0291 Internship in the Teaching of Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0101.Racism, sexism, classism, and their attitudinal and behavioral corollaries,bias, prejudice, and discrimination are characteristics of American culturethat have plagued society and compromised America's democraticideals throughout its history. The course explores the notion of raceas a social construct and the development of individual cultural andracial identities, as well as ethnocentrism, racism, and ways to counterracism. All cognition takes place in the context of culture. The coursealso explores the influence of culture on cognition, between peoplein monocultural race/ethnic groups and within bicultural groups. Anexperiential component offers multicultural exposure.PY 0295 Supervised Research3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0202.The course provides research training experience in a supervised settingin which students work closely with a faculty mentor on various researchprojects. Such work may include assisting in designing and running labresearch, data analysis, ﬁeld experience, and library research. This hands-on experience enhances students' understanding of issues in researchdesign and analysis, and prepares them for more advanced researchopportunities should they choose to pursue them (e.g., independentresearch). Student researchers are expected to spend a minimum of 10hours per week in their faculty mentor's lab. Enrollment by permissiononly.PY 0301 Senior Seminar: Modern Psychology: History and CurrentIssues3 CreditsThis seminar introduces students to the major historical perspectives inpsychology; encourages critical thinking and the generation of creativeideas; and helps students engage in thoughtful questioning of the theoryand knowledge base that constitutes the science of psychology. Opento senior psychology majors. Permission of the instructor is required forjunior psychology majors.
PY 0321 Senior Seminar: Social Psychology3 CreditsThis seminar challenges conventional wisdom that psychologicalprocesses propel people toward animosity, violence, and sufferingand away from compassion, cooperation, and flourishing. As such,the course focuses as much on humans' positive potentialities ason our negative potentialities, and will devote as much attention topsychological approaches to building healthy communities/individualsas to approaches aimed at understanding social strife and psychologicalsuffering. We will take a broad approach, exploring current research insocial, evolutionary, and developmental psychology as well as relatedwork in biology, philosophy, and economics. Open to senior psychologymajors. Permission of instructor is required for junior psychology majors.PY 0322 Senior Seminar: Health Psychology3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceThis course provides an in-depth survey of the discipline of healthpsychology framed within the context of socio-cultural factors such asethnicity, gender and socio-economic status. Among the topics covered:stress, coping behaviors, biomedical and biopsychosocial models ofhealth and illness, health behaviors, patient-provider communication.The students explore new ways to integrate theory and research with theadvances in the science and practice of health psychology, and presenttheir work in a ﬁnal independent project. Open to senior psychologymajors. Permission of instructor is required for junior psychology majorsand non-majors.PY 0331 Senior Seminar: Abnormal Child Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0111 or PY 0211 or PY 0212.This course provides a survey of the theory and research in the ﬁeld ofclinical psychology related to children and adolescents. More speciﬁcally,the seminar explores: the diagnostic characteristics of the major typesof child psychological disorders, the etiology of each disorder from thedifferent theoretical perspectives, and effective approaches to treatmentand prevention. Open to senior psychology majors. Permission of theinstructor required for junior psychology majors and non-majors.PY 0332 Senior Seminar: Current Issues in Clinical Psychology3 CreditsThis course provides an in-depth exploration of current research andpractice in the ﬁeld of clinical psychology. Factors that contribute tothe etiology, maintenance, identiﬁcation and treatment of psychologicaldistress will be discussed. The course will also include an in-depthexamination of clinical disorders including mood, anxiety, psychotic,eating, traumatic stress, and personality disorders. Treatment, resilienceand coping will also be discussed. Open to senior psychology majors.Permission of the instructor required for junior psychology majors.PY 0351 Senior Seminar: False Memories3 CreditsCan people repress memories for childhood trauma? How accurate areeyewitnesses at reporting what they saw? Although most of the time, ourmemories serve us quite well, many of the strategies and mechanismsthat help us remember accurately can also lead to errors. This courseexamines various types of memory distortions and what they can tellus about the mechanisms of memory. Through readings and classdiscussions, we will explore research addressing confusions betweenreal and imagined memories, the reliability of eyewitnesses recollections,children's suggestibility, as well as clinical issues such as repression anddissociation from a cognitive perspective. Open to senior psychologymajors. Permission of instructor is required for junior psychology majors.PY 0361 Senior Seminar: Current Issues in BehavioralNeuroscience3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0261.This senior seminar will provide students with an overview of currentresearch in behavioral neuroscience, with particular emphasis onbehavioral endocrinology (hormones and behavior). It is stronglyrecommended that students complete PY 0261 before enrolling, althoughexceptions may be made. After a brief overview of a particular topic,including discussion of brain areas involved and techniques used toexamine them, this course will emphasize current research articlesin neuroscience. Speciﬁcally, how is behavioral neuroscience used toexamine mechanisms behind certain behaviors and to treat anomalies?Areas of focus include clinical conditions (Alzheimer's, Autism, Post-partum depression) and addictive behaviors/drugs of abuse (Alcohol,Cannabis, Anabolic Androgenic Steroids). Open to senior psychologymajors. Permission of the instructor required for junior psychologymajors and non-majors.PY 0365 Neuroanatomy and Behavior3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0261.This hands-on laboratory course in behavioral neuroscience will introducestudents to comparative neuroanatomy using rat, sheep, and humanbrain specimens. Students will participate in animal handling, brainsectioning, small animal surgeries, and drug administration, and will gainexperience with rodents on a number of behavioral assays, includingtests for spatial memory and reproductive behaviors. In small groupexercises, students will become proﬁcient in critiquing and presentingscientiﬁc literature, and will help in all stages of an experiment, fromdesign to data collection to analysis and the writing up and presentationof results. In addition, students may work on a service-learning projectwith a community partner during the semester. Enrollment by permissiononly.PY 0365L Neuroanatomy and Behavior Lab1 CreditCorequisite: PY 0365.PY 0381 Senior Seminar: Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsIn this seminar, students undertake an in-depth study of a current topicin psychology, using mostly primary sources. Coursework emphasizesdiscussion and writing. Open to junior and senior psychology majors orby permission of instructor.PY 0391 Internship in Applied Psychology3 CreditsSenior psychology majors gain practical, career-related experience ina variety of supervised ﬁeld settings through the internship program.Student interns choose from a wide selection of placements in traditionalpsychology-related programs: mental health, social service, schoolpsychology, early child and special education, probation, and hospitaladministration. Intern placements in related disciplines include humanfactors engineering, human resource development, advertising, andpublic relations. Internships emphasize the integration of learning, bothcognitive and experiential. Interns may register for one or two semesters,depending on the availability of appropriate placement sites and quali-ﬁed supervisors. Interns spend a minimum of 10 hours per week in on-site work and complete the required academic component speciﬁed bythe faculty coordinator. Enrollment by permission only.
PY 0392 Internship in Applied Psychology3 CreditsSenior psychology majors gain practical, career-related experience ina variety of supervised ﬁeld settings through the internship program.Student interns choose from a wide selection of placements in traditionalpsychology-related programs: mental health, social service, schoolpsychology, early child and special education, probation, and hospitaladministration. Intern placements in related disciplines include humanfactors engineering, human resource development, advertising, andpublic relations. Internships emphasize the integration of learning, bothcognitive and experiential. Interns may register for one or two semesters,depending on the availability of appropriate placement sites and quali-ﬁed supervisors. Interns spend a minimum of 10 hours per week in on-site work and complete the required academic component speciﬁed bythe faculty coordinator. Enrollment by permission only.PY 0395 Independent Research1-4 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0202.This course involves a limited number of upper-division students (usuallyseniors) in all aspects of an advanced research project. Studentsmust obtain the consent of the professor with whom they will workprior to registering for this course. Frequently a research proposal isrequired prior to acceptance into this course; early planning is essential.Enrollment by permission only.PY 0401 Special Topics in Psychology (Shell)1-3 CreditsThe special topic course varies in content, as needed, in order to providetimely opportunity to explore time sensitive, new and emerging topicsand foci on a one-time basis, or to offer a pilot section of a new coursein development. Each special topic course will have a unique focus,clearly identiﬁed in the course title after the colon. Candidates may takea special topic course more than once, as long as the course content andfoci are distinctly identiﬁed.PY 0403 Introduction to Play Therapy3 CreditsThis course provides candidates with instruction in client-centered playtherapy. Course objectives include enhancing sensitivity to children'sissues, developing an awareness of the world as viewed by children,increasing the ability to communicate effectively with children using playtechniques, understanding children's behavior, communicating effectivelywith parents, and developing basic play therapy skills. Candidates alsoview demonstrations of actual play therapy sessions and gain experienceapplying play therapy strategies with children. This course is available tocandidates enrolled in a certiﬁcation program or those who are alreadycertiﬁed.PY 0406 Organizational Development3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0420, PY 0435, PY 0545.This course explores and analyzes the various methods and techniquesfor effective organizational development in contemporary organizations.The course focuses on models, case studies, and candidate examinationof organizations with which they are afﬁliated. Candidates identify andstudy key success factors such as organizational culture, leadership, andhistory.PY 0420 Introduction to Industrial and OrganizationalPsychology3 CreditsThis course introduces the application of psychological concepts,principles, and methods to process issues and problems in thework environment. Topics include personnel selection, training anddevelopment, work motivation, job satisfaction and effectiveness, workdesign, and organizational theory. For students interested in the 5-year Integrated Bachelor's/Master's degree in Industrial/OrganizationalPsychology permission of the instructor is required. May be used byPsychology majors as a Psychology elective towards the undergraduatedegree if PY 0124 has not been taken.PY 0430 Issues in Professional Practice in School Psychology3 CreditsAmong the ﬁrst courses that should be taken in the School Psychologyprogram, this course presents a realistic view of school psychology,permitting participants to interview school psychologists and otherschool personnel in the ﬁeld about the role of the school psychologist.It serves as a vehicle to affect the future of school psychology byempowering future school psychologists, and it introduces the issuesprimary to the profession and practice of school psychology. Topicsinclude special education law; professional ethics; the history ofschool psychology; a tripartite model of service delivery; the "scientiﬁcpractitioner" approach; consultation; child development and systemtheory as a basis for practice; advocacy for and education about theschool psychologist's role; and an introduction to federal and stateeducational systems within which the profession operates.PY 0433 Behavioral Statistics3 CreditsParticipants study descriptive and inferential statistics with an emphasison methodological and technological applications in the behavioralsciences. Topics range from measures of central tendency to parametricand nonparametric tests of signiﬁcance. Applied Psychology studentsmust earn at least a B in the course for the course to count toward theirdegree. Candidates with a prior course in statistics may try to test out ofPY 0433 before the ﬁrst class. Contact the instructor well in advance ofthe ﬁrst class to make arrangements. Candidates who successfully testout of this course will substitute another approved three-credit courseappropriate to their program.PY 0435 Psychology of Personality3 CreditsThis course takes a comprehensive approach to understanding theoriesof personality formation through an in-depth survey and critique of majorand minor theories of personality. The course emphasizes developinga critical understanding of the similarities and differences among thetheories and the contribution of each theory to conceptualizations ofnormal and abnormal behavior, with application to the understandingof current research in personality psychology. Cross-cultural issues areaddressed. Applied Psychology students must earn at least a B in thiscourse for the course to count toward their degree.PY 0436 Psychopathology and Classiﬁcation I3 CreditsThis course introduces candidates to advanced child and adolescentpsychopathology. It provides the necessary foundation for undertakingsubsequent courses or supervised practical training focused on theactual practice of formulating diagnoses and treating children andadolescents who are experiencing mental disorders. The course includesin-depth exposure to and discussion of the DSM-V and current research inpsychopathology, and emphasizes understanding and identifying mentaldisorder symptoms and syndromes.PY 0437 Psychopathology and Classiﬁcation II3 CreditsThis course introduces candidates to advanced adult psychopathology.It provides the necessary foundation for undertaking subsequentcourses or supervised practical training focused on the actual practiceof formulating diagnoses and treating people who are experiencingmental disorders. The course includes in-depth exposure to anddiscussion of the DSM-V and current research in psychopathology, andemphasizes understanding and identifying mental disorder symptomsand syndromes.
PY 0438 Treatment Models for School-Age Youth3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0435, PY 0436*.In this course, candidates learn to develop treatment plans for childrenand adolescents in schools. Various psychotherapy models bridge thegap between theory and practice. Case studies serve as the primarylearning vehicle. Given that children and adolescents frequentlydemonstrate emotional difﬁculties in the school setting, the coursehighlights theoretically informed therapeutic interventions that arepragmatic for use in the school setting, and emphasizes the importanceof recognizing individual differences (cognitive, cultural, etc.) whendesigning interventions. (*indicates concurrency allowed)PY 0446 Developmental Psychology I: Theory and Application inProfessional Practice3 CreditsCandidates study human development from birth through adolescence.Designed for graduate candidates pursuing careers as clinicalpractitioners, this course helps participants develop the basic skillsnecessary to understand their clients in the context of the variousdomains of human development. Candidates learn to identify deviationsin development and craft corresponding intervention plans. The coursealso emphasizes cultural competence, providing candidates with anunderstanding of individuals and families within a cultural context.PY 0449 Introduction to Clinical Child Neuropsychology3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0538, PY 0540.This course introduces candidates to brain structure, development,and function as the child grows to adulthood. Discussion topicsinclude cognitive, academic, and behavioral sequelae of commonlyencountered neuropathologies of childhood and adolescence, with caseillustrations. Because of the emphasis placed on educational outcomesof neuropathology, the course addresses dyslexia, attention deﬁcitdisorder, and non-verbal learning disability.PY 0471 Effective Interviewing3 CreditsThis course trains individuals whose work requires a high skill levelin communication. The course emphasizes deﬁning the goals of theinterview and the best means for achieving these goals, attending toovert and covert language and non-language messages, and dealingwith the emotional dimensions of the interview. Candidates learn andexperiment with a variety of interviews in different contexts.PY 0475 Program Evaluation3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0201; or PY 0433, PY 0571.This course focuses on concepts and principles in performingevaluations of psychological and social programs. Evaluations are anamalgam of political and scientiﬁc perspectives that require numerousskills and talents. A number of topics and models of evaluation arepresented. However, no two evaluations are alike. Therefore, solidtraining in methodology and technical techniques is imperative forperforming evaluations. The objectives of this course are to developskills in designing evaluations, to develop survey instruments, to developproposals, and to communicate evaluation results. In each of these areas,ethical issues are addressed. Quantitative methods are emphasized, butqualitative approaches are presented.PY 0480 Consulting Theory and Practice3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0420 or matriculation in the Clinical Mental HealthCounseling program.This course is designed to assist candidates in developing anunderstanding of and skills in the practice of consultation in both internaland external roles. The core psychological principles and techniquesapply equally well in business, non-proﬁt, and educational settings.The course focuses upon the psychological concepts, models, andprinciples for effective consultation. A variety of contemporary modelsare examined. Candidates are expected to develop insight into their ownconsultation approaches and their strengths and needs.PY 0485 Performance Coaching3 CreditsThis course focuses upon the models, strategies and techniques forcoaching and mentoring managers and employees in contemporaryorganizations. Students are introduced to research on interpersonaland leadership style issues that have been shown to play key roles inleadership success or failure. Students are also introduced to researchrelated to leadership "derailment," or failure patterns observed inmanagers and employees who have been previously assessed as beingmoderate to high-potential leaders. Within this course, students learnabout the most common performance coaching challenges and practiceconducting performance coaching sessions.PY 0501 Fundamentals of Survey Design3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0201 or PY 0433.This course covers the important basics of measurement and thefundamentals of un-normed survey and questionnaire design. It also willprovide training in entry-level survey/questionnaire skills for those whomay be required to develop simple surveys/questionnaires in their work.PY 0534 Theories of Learning3 CreditsThis course considers, in detail, the conditions of human learning foundin the principal schools of psychology on the contemporary scene.Candidates investigate other theories for individual reports. Crosslistedwith ED 0534.PY 0535 Collaborative Consultation3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0430, PY 0548.Designed to give candidates knowledge and consultation skills, thiscourse presents consultation as a collaborative problem-solvingprocess that is empowering and prevention-oriented. The coursefocuses on mental health consultation as described by Gerald Caplan.Candidates learn the major models of consultation, the generic stagesof consultation, and four levels of consultation service. The course alsoaddresses practice issues, such as consultee resistance, consulteeperspective, and consultant self-awareness. The course includes apracticum component in which candidates consult with a teacher at aschool site once a week for approximately 10 weeks.PY 0537 Psychoeducational Assessment I: BehavioralApproaches3 CreditsDesigned for school psychology candidates, this course is the ﬁrst in afour-course sequence in the psycho-educational evaluation of school-aged children. It covers the key concepts and procedures used in thebehavioral assessment of individuals with a dual emphasis on functionalbehavioral assessment and progress monitoring within a response-to-intervention model. Topics covered include direct observation procedures,indirect assessment procedures, data collection and progress monitoring,functional analysis, reinforcer assessment, social validity assessment,direct behavior ratings, inter-observer reliability, and linking assessmentresults to behavior intervention and support plans. Applications at allthree tiers of a response-to-intervention model will be discussed. Thiscourse is also the ﬁrst course in the three course program: AdvancedTraining in Applied Behavior Analysis.
PY 0538 Psychoeducational Assessment II: StandardizedApproaches3 CreditsFee: $55 GSEAP Lab FeeCorequisite: PY 0540.Prerequisite: Completion of all MA degree requirements.For school psychology candidates, this course is designed to advancetheir knowledge and skills of standardized assessment instrumentscommonly used by school psychologists in practice. This course willinclude review of psychometric constructs relevant to the measurementof intelligence and achievement, review of cross-battery assessment,(c) practice in the administration and scoring of standardized measuresof intelligence, achievement and behavior, and (d) practice in theinterpretation of test scores, (e) practice in the preparation of writtenreports summarizing test results, (f) exploration of multicultural issuesrelated to assessment, and (g) review of the application of intelligencetesting in school and clinical settings.PY 0540 Psychoeducational Assessment III: Clinical Approaches3 CreditsFee: $55 GSEAP Lab FeeCorequisite: PY 0538.Prerequisite: Completion of all MA degree requirements.This course provides an introduction to clinical approaches toassessment for candidates in the school psychology program. A varietyof assessment techniques will be presented and critically reviewed,including clinical interview, clinical observation, and projective techniquescommonly used by school psychologists to assess students in schoolsettings. Candidates will gain practice in the administration andinterpretation of clinical assessments as well as basic report-writing.PY 0541 Behavior Change Procedures3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0537.This course will present behavior change procedures for use withindividual and group clients. Antecedent, consequence, and alternativebehavior interventions will be discussed. Procedures to learn includethe use of: reinforcement and punishment (including differentialreinforcement), modeling, shaping, chaining, etc. Speciﬁc topics willinclude discrimination training, contingency contracting, and groupcontingencies, among others. Basics of working with verbal behavior alsowill be introduced. This course is the second course in the three-courseApplied Behavior Analysis Advanced Training Certiﬁcate program.PY 0542 Measurement, Data Analysis, and Experimental Design inApplied Behavior Analysis3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0537, PY 0541.This course will present the concepts, principles, and tools ofmeasurement used for assessment and intervention within appliedbehavior analysis. Topics covered will include deﬁning target behaviors,choosing measurement strategies and procedures for variousdimensions of behavior, single-case design, graphical presentation ofdata, and applications within a response-to-intervention framework. Thiscourse is the ﬁnal course in the three course program: Advanced Trainingin Applied Behavior Analysis.PY 0544 Psychoeducational Assessment IV: IntegratedAssessment3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0538, PY 0540.For school psychology majors only, this is the fourth and ﬁnal coursein the advanced study of applied psychoeducational assessment.Designed for graduate candidates who are in the ﬁnal stages ofpreparing for on-site professional assessment, this course focuses oncontinuing instruction in the administration and interpretation of variousassessment techniques, emphasizing cognitive measures, academicassessment, academic achievement tests, and projective techniques,as well as psychological report-writing that integrates all assessmentdata into clear, accurate, written psychological reports. The course alsostresses cultural and ethical competence in order to meet the need tosynthesize and integrate assessment data into comprehensive, non-biased psychological evaluations of children and youth. Candidatesadminister comprehensive psychoeducational batteries within a schoolor agency in preparation for their internship in school psychology.Formerly "Integrated Assessment."PY 0545 Designing and Developing Training Programs3 CreditsPrerequisites: Matriculation in the IOPE program; PY 0420.Designed for prospective trainers, training specialists, personnelgeneralists, or line personnel in business and industry, this coursefocuses on designing and developing training programs foradministrative professionals, management employees, and schoolpersonnel. Course assignments provide individualization and allowcontent to be tailored to participant needs and working environments.Crosslisted with MD 0545.PY 0548 Psychotherapeutic Techniques for School-Age Youth3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0430, PY 0435, PY 0438, PY 0446.This course provides school psychology, school counselor, and socialwork candidates with a ﬁrst exposure to psychotherapeutic techniques.Topics include the purposes and rationale for such techniques, selectionof appropriate methodologies, ethical considerations, and practice skills.PY 0571 Research in Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0433.This course emphasizes developing a critical understanding of theessential issues involved in designing, conducting, and reporting theresults of psychological research. It provides the foundation necessaryfor more advanced courses in research design and data analysis or fordeveloping a master's thesis proposal.PY 0576 Practicum I: Assessment and Group Process3 CreditsCorequisite: PY 0544.This course provides support and university supervision for candidatesin their semester long school-based practicum. This course primarilyprovides opportunities to gain practice and facility in testing and reportwriting. Additionally, the course provides students with an in-classopportunity to experientially learn group process from the perspective ofa group member, as well as group facilitator. Candidates also learn howto develop lesson plans and conduct whole class lessons. Enrollment bypermission only.
PY 0577 Practicum II: Counseling and Group Process3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0576.This course provides support and university supervision for candidatesin their eight-week long mental health practicum. The primary purposeof this course is to provide opportunities to gain practice and facility inindividual and group counseling, behavior modiﬁcation, and interviewingin a mental health setting. Candidates typically work with challengingcases, which enables them to act as better liaisons to acute care facilitieswhen in the schools. Additionally, the course provides students anin-class opportunity to experientially learn group process from theperspective of a group member, as well as group facilitator. Candidatestake this course the summer before internship.PY 0578 Field Work in Applied Psychology3 CreditsPrerequisites: Completion of 21 credits in psychology, including PY 0406,PY 0420, PY 0433, PY 0435, PY 0545, PY 0571; B or better cumulativeGPA.Advanced candidates matriculated in the industrial/organizational/personnel track undertake approved, supervised ﬁeldwork in an arearelated to their professional interests and program content. Courserequirements include a site supervisor and a faculty supervisor for eachcandidate, and a ﬁeldwork placement that involves at least 13 full days ofon-site experience. Enrollment by permission only.PY 0595 Independent Study3 CreditsCandidates conduct individual projects in consultation with a facultymember from the Department of Psychological and EducationalConsultation. Enrollment by approval of faculty advisor.PY 0596 Master's Thesis3 CreditsPrerequisites: PY 0433, PY 0571.Part-time candidates matriculated in school psychology may engage ina master's thesis project. The candidate's project must demonstrate anadvanced, sophisticated knowledge of psychology and be considereda contribution to the ﬁeld. Activities in the development of the thesisinclude an initial outline of the project, proposal (including a review ofthe related literature and proposed thesis), and ﬁnal report. Candidatessubmit proposals in the semester preceding registration for this thesiscourse and may register only during the normal registration periodpreceding each semester. Enrollment by permission only.PY 0598 Internship in School Psychology I3 CreditsPrerequisite: All course work and approval of program coordinator.This course provides weekly supervision and support at the University forcandidates during the fall semester of the school psychology internship.This internship allows candidates to integrate the skills they haveacquired in the program, build conﬁdence using those skills, and developa sense of professional identity. The course stresses a tripartite approachto school psychology, with equal emphasis on assessment, directintervention, and consultation.PY 0598P Internship in School Psychology I3 CreditsSee PY 0598.PY 0599 Internship in School Psychology II3 CreditsPrerequisite: PY 0598.This course provides weekly supervision and support at the Universityfor candidates during the spring semester of the school psychologyinternship.PY 0599P Internship in School Psychology II3 CreditsSee PY 0599.Public Administration (MPA)MPA 0400 Financial Management and Budgeting3 CreditsThis course will examine the proper role government has to play intoday's economy and will provide the fundamental and technical skillsnecessary to understand public budgeting and ﬁnances. Topics includethe reasons for government involvement in the economy (market failureand redistribution), budgeting techniques at all levels of government, andsources of tax revenue. There will be a strong emphasis on issues relatedto state/local governments. By the end of this course students shouldhave a strong understanding of the budgetary process at all levels, but inparticular at the state/local level of government.MPA 0405 Research Methods3 CreditsThis course will introduce students to research methodologyand hypothesis testing. The ﬁrst part of the course will focus onunderstanding basic research techniques in the social sciences, includingdata collection, data analysis and reporting of results. The second halfof the course will emphasize methodology. Students will be required toconduct a major research project in a laboratory setting and produce aﬁnished report. Students must have taken a prior statistical methodsclass.MPA 0410 Introduction to Public Administration3 CreditsThis course provides an overview of the history, practical nature, functionof public administration and policy making at the federal, state at thelocal levels. It will examine the theories and concepts of bureaucracy, aswell as the formulation and implementation of policy. Among the topicscovered are organization theory, federalism and regulation, ethics andaccountability, decision-making, and leadership and budgeting. Casestudies will be used to facilitate class lectures and discussions.MPA 0415 Human Resource Management3 CreditsStudents choose from MG 0505 or MG 0525.MPA 0420 Leadership3 CreditsStudents choose from CO 0522 or MG 0500.MPA 0425 Grant Writing3 CreditsThis course will prepare participants to write effective proposalsand reports. It will also provide information on planning specialfundraising events, requesting funds from donors and seeking funds fromcorporations and foundations. Students will learn to deﬁne and writeproblem statements, objectives, plans of action, assessment documents,budgets and project summaries. In addition, students will sharpen theirteamwork, editing, writing, audience awareness and design skills asthey engage in collaborative projects with a nonproﬁt organization orgovernment agency.MPA 0430 Economics of the Nonproﬁt Sector3 CreditsPrerequisites: MPA 0405, MPA 0410.This course will examine both the role that nonproﬁts play in theU.S. economy and how charitable organizations are managed andﬁnanced, including the interplay between the government and theThird Sector. Particular attention will be paid to distinctions betweensuccessful (impactful) nonproﬁts and those that are less effective inpursuing societal needs. New forms of philanthropic organizationswill be examined, including beneﬁt corporations and social marketingenterprises. In addition, new ethical practices, including impact investing,will be surveyed. Case studies will be utilized to illuminate the economiccircumstances that can impact Individual nonproﬁts.
MPA 0450 State and Local Government3 CreditsPrerequisite: MPA 0410.This examines the political processes and institutions of U.S., state,and local governments. By the end of the course, students will be ableto discuss the state/federal/local relationships within the context ofthe American Constitution and political process, examine the variousgovernmental structures and functions of state and local governmentsand how these structures impact the political process, demonstratean understanding of the role states and localities play in the electionsand the political process, understand the institutions of state and localgovernments including how they vary, and the various policy issuesbefore the states and local governments.MPA 0470 The Dynamics and Challenges of AdministrativeCorruption3 CreditsCorruption is a reality in the public sphere, both in the nonproﬁt andgovernmental sectors. The various forms of corruption, from simplegratuities to outright subversion of the political process will be examined.The modern democratic state has necessarily instituted controls thatsuppress corruption, but the complexity of governance may enable theundermining of those controls. Public administration students will likelyencounter numerous instances of corrupt practices in their careers, andunderstanding corruption will enable students to respond professionallywhen confronted by malfeasance. This course will also cover institutionalstructures that either encourage or discourage corruption in othernations.MPA 0500 Internship3 CreditsStudents are required to complete six credits of internship at a positionrelevant to their interests. Those in the city/state government track willbe assigned to internships at local government and state ofﬁces, whilethose in the nonproﬁt track will be offered relevant positions at local not-for-proﬁts. This requirement may be waived for those who already haveexperience working for a nonproﬁt or a government agency.MPA 0510 Capstone Experience3 CreditsThe Capstone Experience is intended to complement the student'scoursework and complete the chosen program of study. It is undertakenwith the close supervision of a faculty advisor and can take the form of aspecially designed course, independent study, or a master's thesis.Quantitative Analysis (QA)QA 0400 Applied Business Statistics3 CreditsUsing spreadsheet software, this hands-on course teaches a variety ofquantitative methods for analyzing data to help make decisions. Topicsinclude: data presentation and communication, probability distributions,sampling, hypothesis testing and regression, and time series analysis.This course uses numerous case studies and examples from ﬁnance,marketing, operations, accounting, and other areas of business toillustrate the realistic use of statistical methods.QA 0500 Business Forecasting and Predictive Analytics3 CreditsPrerequisite: QA 0400.This course introduces analytical techniques used for decision-makingunder uncertainty. Topics include time series and other forecastingtechniques, such as Monte Carlo simulation, to assess the riskassociated with managerial decisions. Speciﬁcally, we will cover datacollection methods, time dependent models and analysis, advancedsolver, time series techniques, exponential smoothing, moving averages,and Box-Jenkins (ARIMA) models. Application examples include ﬁnancialmodels - stock prices, risk management - bond ratings, behavior models- customer attrition, customer likes/dislikes, buying patterns - propensityto buy, politics - identify swing voters, and sales.Reading and Language Development(RLD)RLD 0429 Principles of Structured Literacy I: Fundamentals of Readingand Language Development3 CreditsThis course covers the foundational concepts of oral and writtenlanguage including the language processing requirements of proﬁcientreading and writing: phonological, orthographic, morphologic, semantic,syntactic, and discourse processing. Students will learn other aspects ofcognition and behavior that affect reading and writing such as attention,executive function, memory, processing speed, and grapho-motorcontrol. Candidates will learn the typical developmental progressionof oral language (semantic, syntactic, pragmatic), phonological skills,printed word recognition, spelling, and reading fluency. Candidateswill also learn how the relationships among major components ofliteracy development change with reading development (i.e. changesin oral language, including phonological awareness; phonics and wordrecognition, spelling; and reading and writing fluency). The research andinstructional strategies for phonological awareness, systematic phonics,and reading fluency will be taught. Crosslisted with SE 0429.RLD 0486 Developmental Literacy I: Fundamentals of Reading andLanguage Development3 CreditsThis course is the ﬁrst in a set of two courses that address thefoundational concepts, theories, empirical research, and developmentalmilestones associated with oral and written language. This coursefocuses on the development of essential decoding strand readingskills (phonological awareness, alphabetic principle, fluency), as wellas aspects of cognition and behavior that affect reading and writing.Candidates learn how to administer, score, and interpret universalscreening and informal diagnostic measures in the areas of phonologicalawareness, alphabetic principle, and fluency for the purposes ofdetermining the most appropriate starting point for instruction andplanning differentiated instructional groups. Candidates also learn howto select and deliver varied research-based instructional strategies todevelop students' foundational reading skills in the areas of phonologicalawareness, alphabetic principle, and fluency. Crosslisted with SE 0486.RLD 0487 Developmental Literacy II: Essentials of Vocabulary and TextComprehension3 CreditsThis course is the second in a set of two courses that address thefoundational concepts, theories, empirical research, and developmentalmilestones associated with oral and written language. This coursefocuses on the development of essential comprehension strand readingskills (fluency, vocabulary, comprehension), as well as aspects ofcognition and behavior that affect reading and writing. Candidates learnhow to administer, score, and interpret universal screening and informaldiagnostic measures in the areas of vocabulary, comprehension, andfluency for the purposes of determining the most appropriate startingpoint for instruction and planning differentiated instructional groups.Candidates also learn how to select and deliver varied research-basedinstructional strategies to develop students' reading skills in the areas ofvocabulary and comprehension. Crosslisted with SE 0487.
RLD 0488 Content Area Literacy Strategies3 CreditsThis course introduces candidates to content area and disciplinaryliteracy reading practices at the elementary, middle, and high schoollevels. Strategies to facilitate comprehension of narrative and expositorytext structures, including strategies that address the reading-writingconnection, are introduced. Candidates also learn about adolescentliteracy development, achievement, and engagement, and how factorsrelated to cultural, linguistic, and cognitive diversity impact students'comprehension of texts.RLD 0503 Research and Evaluation in Multidisciplinary Contexts3 CreditsThis course examines methods of empirical research and measurement,the role of descriptive and inferential statistics in data assessment, andcritical analyses of effective quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methodsresearch approaches. Topics will include: evaluation of current researchstudies and implications for professional practice, types of assessments(i.e. traditional print and electronic), data for general education teachersand a diversiﬁed student population, and the skills needed for effectivedata-based decision making and sharing of results. Crosslisted withMD 0503.RLD 0504 Practicum in Scientiﬁcally Research-Based InterventionPractices, Tiers II and III3 CreditsPrerequisite: RLD 0503.Candidates will participate in a semester-long supervised apprenticeshipwith a master teacher in a lab school or model classroom focusedon developing a deeper understanding of reading research and theapplication of evidence-based practice in a research practicum.Candidates will apply basic research principles learned in RLD 0503,review educational research on effective literacy practice (e.g., theessential components of reading instruction, etc.), and are supervised indesigning and implementing a research project in a school setting.RLD 0529 Principles of Structured Literacy II: Essentials of Decoding andEncoding3 CreditsPrerequisite: RLD 0429 or SE 0429.This course covers vocabulary and comprehension research and explicitinstructional strategies. The candidate will learn about the role ofvocabulary development and vocabulary knowledge in comprehension.This course includes research-based comprehension teaching strategiesthat are appropriate for before, during, and after reading that promotereflective reading (e.g., prediction, prior knowledge, monitoring,think-aloud, text structure, visual representation, mental imagery,summarization, questions-questioning, etc.). Candidates will learn thefactors that contribute to deep comprehension including backgroundknowledge, vocabulary, verbal reasoning ability, knowledge of literarystructures and conventions, and use of skills and strategies for closereading of text. Semantics, the ability to identify examples of meaningfulword relationships or semantic organization and syntax, the ability todistinguish among phrases, dependent clauses, and independent clausesin sentence structure, are presented. This course includes an introductionto discourse organization, explaining the difference between narrativeand expository text and knowledge of cohesive devices in text andinferential gaps in the surface of text. Crosslisted with SE 0529.RLD 0530 Language and Reading Acquisition for English LanguageLearners and Students with Special Needs3 CreditsThis course develops literacy leadership skills to train others andfoundational reading skills to be better prepared to teach K-12 studentsto learn how to read. This course is designed for candidates to learnabout the developmental learning needs of culturally and linguisticallydiverse students, exceptional learners, and bilingual students with specialneeds, and promotes working in collaborative data teams. The coursealso explores the similarities and differences between bilingual/TESOLstudents and students with special needs with a focus on reading skillsdevelopment (e.g. phonology, morphology, orthography, syntax) andinstructional strategies that all teachers can use in their classrooms tosupport reading development in all students. Crosslisted with SL 0530.RLD 0535 Handwriting, Spelling, and Writing Instruction in the Readingand Language Arts Program3 CreditsCandidates will learn research-based principles for teaching letter namingand letter formation, for both manuscript and cursive. Techniquesfor teaching handwriting fluency will be presented. Candidates willlearn about the relationship between transcription skills and writtenexpression. Candidates will learn how to identify children's differentlevels of spelling development and orthographic knowledge. Theywill be learn about the influence of phonological, orthographic, andmorphemic knowledge on spelling. The major components and processesof written expression and how they interact and the developmentalexpectations for students' writing in the mechanics and conventions ofwriting, composition, revision, and the editing processes will be covered.The similarities and differences between written composition and textcomprehension and the usefulness of writing in building comprehensionwill also be included. Students will learn how to develop the writingskills of all children, including learners with special needs. This courseincludes technological applications and assistive technology to supportthe writing process and evaluation of writing using formal and informalmeasures.RLD 0550 Reading Different Types of Texts and Academic Language:Content Area Literacy3 CreditsIn this course candidates will learn the differences between, anddevelop comprehension strategies for, both literary/narrative textsand informational/expository texts. Candidates will learn explicit orallanguage activities (e.g., literature circles, think-pair-share, etc.) andwriting activities (e.g., literary response journals, character analyses,etc.) that develop and reinforce comprehension of literary/narrative textsand literary analysis skills. Candidates will learn how to develop studyand research skills by using informational/expository texts. Candidateswill analyze the role of academic language and background knowledgein reading comprehension. They will recognize the academic languagestructures (e.g., syntax, grammar, etc.) and functions (e.g., analyzing,justifying, etc.) used in oral and written academic discourse.
RLD 0560 Principles of Scientiﬁcally Research-Based Interventions inReading and Language Arts3 CreditsCandidates will learn about basic measurement concepts and principlesof test construction (e.g., reliability, validity, norm-referencing, etc.) aswell as the differences among screening, diagnostic, outcome, andprogress-monitoring assessments. Response to Intervention (RtI)models will be covered. Candidates will practice administering tests andusing data from diagnostic surveys and assessments of foundationalskills, reading comprehension, and written expression in relation to astudent's component proﬁle. The candidates will learn reasonable goalsand expectations for learners at various stages of reading and writingdevelopment. Other topics in this course will include consideration ofenvironmental, cultural, social factors and special needs that contributeto literacy development, and the use of technology in assessment andreporting.RLD 0565 Differential Diagnosis of Reading Disability Subtypes3 CreditsCandidates will learn the characteristics of a variety of reading andlearning disabilities, including dyslexia, language comprehension andwritten expression disorders, and how the symptoms may change inresponse to development and instruction. Theory and practice of literacyinterventions, and appropriate commercial instructional materials forindividuals experiencing reading difﬁculties will also be covered witha focus on data-driven interventions to meet the needs of all children,including culturally and linguistically diverse learners. Use of technologyto support the remedial reading and remedial language arts program andin reading intervention is included in this course.RLD 0583 Tests and Measurement in Reading and Language ArtsContexts3 CreditsThis course introduces candidates to the principles and practicesof response to intervention approaches to the prevention and earlyidentiﬁcation and remediation of reading difﬁculties. Candidates learnabout the essential features of Tier I, Tier II, and Tier III instruction,including common program development and delivery considerations andassessment routines.RLD 0584 Guided Reflective Practice in Tier I Reading and Language ArtsProgramming3 CreditsThis course presents an overview of varied research-based instructionalapproaches and materials to use in designing and delivering anintegrated, comprehensive, and balanced evidence-based reading andwriting curriculum. Candidates are provided with the opportunity toexplore varied instructional approaches, materials, texts, and classroomroutines, and their use in creating a literate environment that fostersreading and writing for diverse student populations. Media Consent andFingerprinting required.RLD 0585 Writing Components and Processes in the Language ArtsProgram3 CreditsCandidates learn how to assess students' handwriting, spelling, andwriting skills, and how to teach writing across the elementary, middle, andsecondary continuums, with consideration for the use of a wide range oftexts and strategies designed to foster the reading-writing connection.The use of Assistive Technology and specialized instructional strategiesand programs will be explored as a means to facilitate students' ability toconstruct quality writing samples.RLD 0586 Diagnosis and Remediation of Reading and Language ArtsDifﬁculties3 CreditsThis course introduces candidates to the varied reasons why studentsmay not be responding to the provision of intensive targeted readingand writing interventions. Candidates learn how to administer a range offormal diagnostic assessment measures to students and how to analyzeﬁndings for the purpose of informing improved intervention programmingfor students. This course includes a six to eight hour supervised ﬁeldworkexperience. Fingerprinting required.RLD 0587 Practicum in Tier II Reading and Language Arts InterventionPractices3 CreditsThis course presents an overview of Tier II reading and language artsintervention practices for small groups of students. Candidates learnhow to apply their knowledge of benchmark and progress monitoringpractices to plan and evaluate instruction for individual and groups ofstudents, how to design and implement flexible grouping techniques,how to prepare data walls and progress monitoring reports to effectivelycommunicate students' response data to colleagues and parents. Thiscourse includes a supervised practicum experience. Media Consent andFingerprinting required.RLD 0588 Practicum in Tier III Reading and Language Arts InterventionPractices3 CreditsThis course presents an overview of Tier III reading and language artsintervention practices for individual students in Grades 1-12, includingstudents with dyslexia. Candidates in this course learn about structuredliteracy interventions and engage in supervised work with an assignedstudent in a practicum context. Candidates in this course will: administera comprehensive literacy screening assessment to an assigned studentin order to develop an individualized scope and sequence of instruction,design and deliver a series of diagnostic-prescriptive structured literacyinterventions to an assigned student in the context of a supervisedpracticum experience, develop and implement an individualized progress-monitoring plan, and share students' progress with parents/guardiansin the context of an end of term conference. Media Consent andFingerprinting required.RLD 0591 Practicum in Scientiﬁcally Research-Based Core LiteracyPractices3 CreditsThis is a semester-long supervised apprenticeship with a master teacherin the model school or other model classroom. Candidates will havethe opportunity to apply reading theories and other research-basedmethodologies in a general education classroom setting. Candidates willbe responsible for assessing children and interpreting data, writing lessonplans based on the instructional needs of the children, and deliveringevidence-based reading instruction. Candidates will analyze criteriafor selecting reading materials and other online and offline resourcesfor different instructional purposes and to address students' variousliteracy needs and diverse cultural backgrounds. During this practicumcandidates will also learn characteristics involved in creating a literacy-rich classroom environment that values diversity and promotes reading,vocabulary, and concept development through purposeful discussions,reading and writing.
RLD 0592 Practicum in Structured Literacy Interventions3 CreditsA supervised apprenticeship with a master teacher in the summerprogram will focus on diagnosis and intervention for individuals withreading and language learning disabilities. Candidates will conduct anindividual diagnostic evaluation for a small group of children with readingdifﬁculties and provide a remedial reading intervention program for thechildren tested. Candidates will use formal and informal assessmenttools appropriate for children from diverse cultural and linguisticbackgrounds. Recommendations for remediation will also includesuggestions for use of assistive technology tools.RLD 0594 Designing, Implementing, and Leading the School LiteracyIntervention Program: Capstone Seminar3 CreditsCandidates will learn the essential components of a classroomenvironment that support and promote literacy development with afocus on planning instruction for K-6th graders in the school reading andlanguage arts program. There will be a particular emphasis on childrenwho are experiencing difﬁculties in developing literacy, addressingthe special needs of diverse learners. Students will also learn how tofacilitate meetings with a literacy focus including grade-level literacyteam meetings, literacy leadership meetings, data team meetings, dataanalysis, and RTI meetings. This course will also support students'ability to design and deliver literacy-focused professional developmentworkshops.Religious Studies (RS)RS 0101 Exploring Religion (Shell)3 CreditsThis course invites students to explore the religious dimensions ofhuman experience, emphasizing the themes of scripture, communityand practice. In a critical appraisal of one or more of the great religioustraditions of the world, students will analyze sacred texts in context,discover how social patterns shape religious communities, and surveya wide variety of religious devotions and practices, both personal andcommunal. Students in this course will learn to investigate the religiouslives, beliefs, experiences and values of others, in their scope anddiversity, respecting both the differences from, and the similarities to,their own. While several sections of the course will offer a variety oflenses for such a critical understanding, all sections will inquire aboutthe relationship between religion and culture, employing the tools of thehumanities and the social sciences. See RS 0101A, RS 0101B, RS 0101C,RS 0101D, RS 0101E.RS 0101A Exploring Religion: Religion and the Critical Mind3 CreditsThis subsection of RS 0101 examines some of the themes in the studyof religion and offers a comparative analysis of the nature, function, andpurpose of religion as found in a variety of models of religion. A widevariety of contemporary religious practices will serve as discussionpoints for scholarly analysis.RS 0101B Exploring Religion: Asian Religions3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityThis subsection of RS 0101 examines the basic religious systems ofIndia and China, including their fundamental differences, performativefunctions, and worldviews. The course evaluates Euro-American theoriesof religion in light of Asian religious expressions.RS 0101C Exploring Religion: Common Questions, TraditionalResponse3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorThis subsection of RS 0101 examines the major questions addressed bymost world religions, with special emphasis on how they are answeredin a speciﬁc major tradition. Topics include the nature of the sacredand its relationship to human persons; the problem of evil and innocentsuffering; religion's call for social responsibility; and the nature andfunction of ritual.RS 0101D Exploring Religion: Religion in a Comparative Key3 CreditsThis subsection of RS 0101 examines different kinds of religiousexperience, doctrine, and practice through a close examination of twodifferent religious traditions, engaging the traditions as these appear in avariety of cultural contexts.RS 0101E Exploring Religion: Peoples of the Book, Sacred Texts, andTheir Communities3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorThis subsection of RS 0101 examines the relationship between sacredtext and the historical communities of Judaism, Christianity and Islam.Focusing on shared narratives, such as Adam and Eve in the Garden, thecourse illustrates the different ways that texts are interpreted and thevarious roles that Scripture plays in these communities.RS 0201 Hebrew Bible/Old Testament3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course will survey the texts that are normative for Judaism andChristianity today; the Hebrew Bible (TaNaKh) and the Christian OldTestament. These texts will be studied according to a wide range ofmodern methods of biblical criticism which consider carefully theirliterary and historical aspects. Special effort will be made to situate thesetexts within their historical and cultural setting in the ancient near east.RS 0205 Women in the Bible3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies Minor, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines stories about women that appear in both Jewishand Christian Scriptures by applying various methodological approaches.Conventional methods of interpretation, namely literary and historical-critical, will be used and critiqued. While the focus will be on imagesof women in the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament (viz., the Jewish TaNaKhand the Christian Scriptures), other non-canonical stories about womenwill also be considered. This course does not presume any previousknowledge of the biblical texts themselves or biblical methodology.RS 0207 Prophetic and Apocalyptic Voices3 CreditsPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course studies the major prophetic voices of the Hebrew andChristian scriptures, concentrating on each prophet's unique vision ofGod and of the requirements of justice. The course blends these themeswith the later apocalyptic consciousness, which demands rectiﬁcation ofthe wrongs of hatred and injustice, and offers hope for a better future.RS 0209 Jewish Interpretations of Scriptures3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course explores ways in which Jews have understood the HebrewBible from the ﬁrst centuries of the Common Era through today. Focusingon speciﬁc biblical texts, the course draws interpretations from earlyclassical, legal, and non-legal rabbinic material; medieval commentariesand codes; mystical literature; and modern literary, theological sources.
RS 0210 Introduction to Judaism3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines ways in which Judaism has been deﬁned andhas developed as both a way of thought and a way of life. Included willbe discussions of central Jewish concepts (e.g., covenant, holiness,and commandment), holidays, life-cycle ceremonies, and contemporaryJewish religious movements.RS 0211 History of the Jewish Experience3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisite: RS 0101.The course examines the origin and development of Judaism and theJewish people. It begins with the Hebrew Bible as the source of Judaismand follows its development to the modern era. This overview introducesthe Jewish religion, its history, and development.RS 0213 Jews and Judaism in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, JST Judaic Studies Minor, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.What has it meant and what does it mean today to be a Jew in America?Viewing Judaism and Jewishness as inseparable from one another, Jewsremain a distinct though by no means homogeneous religious and ethnicgroup in American society. This course explores the religious, cultural,social, economic, and political diversity among American Jews as well asdistinctive beliefs, concerns, and experiences that continue to unite them.The course gives special attention to issues concerning immigration,acculturation, gender, and Black-Jewish relations.RS 0215 Women in Judaism3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies Minor, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines ways in which women have understood andexperienced Judaism from the Biblical period through the present,drawing on historical writings, novels, theological essays, and ﬁlms andgiving particular attention to the traditional religious roles and statusof women, the many ways in which women have understood Jewishself-identity, and recent feminist efforts to re-evaluate and transformcontemporary Jewish life.RS 0218 Faith After the Holocaust3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies Minor, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesPrerequisites: RS 0101.This course explores the complexity and horror of the holocaust and itscontemporary historical, social, political, and theological implications.What historically made the attempted annihilation of European Jewrypossible and how were some Jews able to survive? Was the holocaustunique? Could it have been prevented? What impact did it have onWestern faith in humanity and God? What lessons, particularly in light ofthe resurgence of anti-semitism in Europe today, can it teach us?RS 0220 Writings of Paul3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the texts and recurring themes of the writingsattributed to Paul, with particular emphasis on Paul's treatment of ethicalsituations, community, and religious experience.RS 0221 Good News of the Gospels3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Johnaccording to contemporary exegetical and literary methodologies.The course examines and compares the theological positions of earlyChristianity as represented by each writer and by other early Christiangospels.RS 0222 Writings of John3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the text of the gospel and epistles attributed toJohn, placing particular emphasis upon the recurring themes in thesewritings, the distinctive view of Christianity they represent, and thedevelopment of early Christianity to which they witness.RS 0228 Early Christianity3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course presents a historical overview of early Christianity betweenthe end of the ﬁrst century and the close of the sixth. The focus of thecourse is on the institutional and theological development of the earlyChurch after the ﬁnal books of the New Testament were written. Topicsexamined include: Jesus and Judaism, Christianity and the RomanEmpire, heresies of the Early Church, and the development of Christiantheology (in particular the doctrines of Christ and the Trinity).RS 0230 Introduction to Catholicism3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This introduction to the beliefs, doctrines, ideas, and practices that shapethe unity and diversity of the Catholic tradition explores theological,devotional, and spiritual forms of expression in their historical andcultural contexts in order to appreciate the particularity of Catholicthemes. The course also considers how these themes engagecontemporary Catholic life and exercise an influence on the wider culture.RS 0231 The Problem of God3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This historical and theological examination of the Christian doctrineof God pays special attention to the problematic aspects of thedevelopment of this doctrine through the ages, exploring thisdevelopment in biblical sources; patristic, medieval, Reformation,and modern times. The course concludes with a consideration ofthe challenge of post-Enlightenment atheism and of the efforts ofcontemporary theologians to recast the classical conception of God.RS 0232 Jesus Christ: Yesterday and Today3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.A systematic treatment of the person and work of Jesus Christ, thiscourse examines different interpretations of the meaning of the Christevent from the scriptural sources to contemporary developments.RS 0234 The Church3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.A study of the development and present-day understanding of the idea ofthe Church in Roman Catholic theology, this course examines the rootsof the concept in scripture and the earlier traditions of the Church, andpresents a contemporary ecclesiology through a critical discussion of theFirst and Second Vatican Councils.
RS 0235 Liberation Theology3 CreditsAttributes: BSAH Black Studies: Arts and Humanities, BSCC Black StudiesComponent Course, CARS Catholic Studies: Religious Studies, HASMHumanitarian Action Minor Skills/Method Course, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course analyzes contemporary theological movements thatemphasize the relationship of religious faith and praxis to thesociopolitical realm. The course treats at length the development ofthe Latin American theology of liberation and examines its theologicalprinciples, tracing the influence of this theological outlook on otherThird World theologies and on North American and European theologicalreflection. The course proceeds to a constructive proposal for acontemporary political theology.RS 0236 Christian Feminist Theology3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious Studies, UDIV U.S. Diversity,WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedPrerequisite: RS 0101.Participants examine some of the key issues being raised in religion bycontemporary feminist thinkers. After a brief examination of the history ofpatriarchy in the Christian tradition and earlier responses by pre-modernfeminists, the course considers issues such as feminist methodology,feminist perspectives on traditional Christian doctrines of God, creation,anthropology, Christology, and eschatology. The course concludes witha discussion of the nature of authority and an examination of a feministtheology.RS 0237 Sacraments in Christian Life3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.A theological investigation of the sacraments as the source ofChristian character, involvement, and witness, this course proposes ananthropological theology as a basis for understanding faith and developsa process/model view of the Christian's relationship with God. Thecourse presents the Eucharist as the focus of Christian self-awareness;baptism, conﬁrmation, and penance as sacraments of reconciliation; andconsiders special sacramental questions.RS 0238 Evil3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course explores the problem of evil from the perspectives oftheology and philosophy. The course considers God and evil, classicaltheodicies (reasonable justiﬁcations of God before the prevalence of evil),modern philosophical accounts of evil, social evil, and the possibilityof belief in the face of evil. Within the context of these subjects, thecourse addresses the following questions: What is evil? What are theroots of evil? What effect does one's understanding of evil have on one'sunderstanding of the human being, of God, and of religion? What is ourresponsibility in the face of evil?RS 0239 Last Things: The Catholic Belief in Life After Death3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course ﬁrst explores the Christian understanding of life after death,afﬁrmed in such beliefs as the resurrection of the body, the last judgment,heaven and hell, and the forgiveness of sins. It then goes on to examinethe Catholic tradition's particular contributions to these beliefs in itsteachings on purgatory and the communion of the saints. The courseasks why these ancient beliefs continue to resonate in contemporarypopular culture, and examines modern theological efforts to re-constructthese hopeful beliefs for our own times.RS 0240 The Medieval Church3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course surveys the development of Christianity in medieval WesternEurope through the lens of the Western/Latin Church. It presents a broadhistory of the social, political and religious aspects of the Church asfound in a variety of primary sources: mystical and theological writings,hagiographical literature and rules for monastic communities, and ofﬁcialChurch documents. Through these sources students are introduced tothe critical analysis of primary texts (dating from c. 300-1500) by givingproper attention to the social and cultural context in which they werewritten. Topics discussed in this course include: monasticism, the rise ofpapal power, the First Crusade, and the development of cathedrals anduniversities.RS 0241 Encountering God in Medieval Christian Thought3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course presents a historical overview of religious thought inthe medieval era (c. 500-1500), with a focus on the institutional andtheological developments within Christian monasteries and universities.We will ﬁrst treat the development of Benedictine monasticism and thetypes of theological literature associated with the monasteries, beforelooking at the development of the University system in Western Europeand the types of theology produced in the schools. Finally, we will treatthe pervasive presence of "mystical theologians" who were often neithermonks nor university professors, but developed a rich theology groundedin human experience.RS 0244 Finding God in All Things: The Spiritual Legacy of Ignatius ofLoyola3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.The course aims at a deeper understanding of the origins, development,and present forms of Ignatian spirituality. Students are invited to study inan open yet critical fashion: the life and history of Ignatius of Loyola; thefounding and development of the Society of Jesus; the historical contextof the major themes of Jesuit spirituality and ways in which these havebeen worked out in history; strengths, weaknesses, and potential lacunaeof this particular charism in the church; its relevance to contemporaryspiritual needs, especially in the context of university life; its potential fornurturing lives characterized by love for others and justice for the world.Students are also exposed to the dynamics of the Spiritual Exercises;a variety of prayer forms developed by Ignatius; and a service learningproject. The course culminates in a creative project designed by eachstudent.RS 0245 The Reformation Era3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.Participants study the religious reform of the 16th century. The coursebegins by probing the seeds of reform in the late scholastic tradition andin popular spirituality, and proceeds by tracing the development of theideas and impact of the reformers: Luther, Zwingli, Calvin, Munzer, andSchwenckfeld. The course concludes with an investigation of the RomanCatholic response to reform in the events of the Council of Trent and theCounterreformation.
RS 0248 Faith and Reason: The Catholic Intellectual Tradition3 CreditsPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course leads students to an understanding of the characteristicallyCatholic ways of engaging the world intellectually. The course examineskey ideas of symbol, analogy and sacrament, and central Catholic motifssuch as theology as "faith seeking understanding," the synthesis of faithand reason and the peculiarly Catholic expression of Christian humanism,as expressed in the work of Catholic philosophers and intellectuals,It attends to feminist and non-Western critiques of the tradition, toCatholicism's approach to some contemporary social problems, and tosome examples of the role of the Catholic imagination in the arts.RS 0249 American Catholic Theologians3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This lecture/reading course gives students insight into the moderndevelopment of Catholic theology in America and what makes itspeciﬁcally American. Discussion/analysis covers the work of GustavWeigel, John Courtney Murray, George Tavard, Frank Sheed, WalterBurghardt, and Robley Whitson.RS 0250 Contemporary Morality: Basic Questions3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course introduces the fundamental concepts in moral theology,drawing on major traditions in contemporary Christian thought. Thecourse examines the moral foundations of conscience, freedom andresponsibility, virtue and character, and methods of moral decision-making. To deepen the study of basic questions in Christian morality, thecourse concludes by examining selected applied issues in contemporarymorality.RS 0252 Contemporary Moral Problems3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious Studies, EDCG EducationalStudies CognatePrerequisite: RS 0101.This theological examination of contemporary moral problems considersselected ethical issues in contemporary society and leading approachesto moral decision-making. The course investigates moral problems suchas euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide, the death penalty, violenceand just war theory, bioethics, sexual and reproductive ethics, globalpoverty, environmental ethics, and issues in business and legal ethics.RS 0253 The Morality of Marriage in Christian Perspective3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course explores marital commitments by exploring the manyphases of partnership - courtship, marriage, intimacy, parenting, death- and the specialized skills or virtues these phases require. The courseconsiders questions such as: What kinds of communities, especiallyfaith communities, support marital commitments? What are the forces ofsociety and culture that might threaten them? How might vices, such asphysical or sexual abuse, alcoholism, and addiction, erode commitments?The course concludes by assessing how virtuous families might promotepeace and justice, and developing an integrated theological account ofthe moral project we call marriage.RS 0255 Catholic Social Teaching3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious Studies, PJST Peace andJustice StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the modern teachings of the Catholic Church onpeace and justice; Christian/humanist attitudes towards war; paciﬁsmand the just war theory; and changes in global political and economicstructures that seem necessary to ensure a peaceful and just world order.RS 0257 Christian Spirituality3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the foundations and elements of a spirituality ofeveryday life from a lay perspective. It considers issues related to thespirituality of university life and to one's broader, future developmentalcalling on personal, spiritual, and professional levels. Themes of thecourse include historical overview of Christian spiritual traditions; keytheological foundations such as creation, incarnation, doctrine of theHoly Spirit, grace, priesthood of all believers, action, and contemplation;exploration of the practical implications of such a spirituality; andreflection on action for justice.RS 0260 Religion in the United States3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: ReligionPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course explores the story of religion in America from a multicultural,multi-faith perspective. Students will examine how different religiouspeoples and traditions have interacted across time and how theseinteractions and exchanges have both complicated and enriched theAmerican religious landscape. Much attention will be paid to those voicesoften left out of the master narrative of American religion for reason ofrace, gender, ethnicity, class, or even peculiarity. The course is a survey,thus students will encounter a variety of topics varying from indigenousreligious practices, revivalism, the early roots of traditions like Judaismand Islam, new religious movements, to secularization.RS 0262 Afro-Caribbean and African American Religions: Shout, OChildren!3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, BSAH Black Studies: Artsand Humanities, BSFC Black Studies Focus Course, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the evolution and innovation of the religions ofAfrican people as they were shaped through the middle passage, mergedwith other religions during the institution of slavery, and created anew onthe American continent and throughout the Caribbean Sea. Students willexamine how Caribbean traditions like Vodou and Santeria and Americaniterations of Christianity and Islam arose out of and against institutionsand cultures that sought to subjugate them. Further, students will explorehow elements of black religious life, from preaching style to music toliturgy to religious thought, have left an indelible mark upon American andCaribbean religious cultures and traditions.
RS 0263 New Religious Movements in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, ASUP American StudiesUpper LevelPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines new religious movements, more pejoratively knownas "cults," and their schismatic cousin "sects," on their own terms and intheir American context. Students examine multiple religious traditions,including those born and grown in the United States, as well as thoseimported from outside the United States. Among those traditions studiedare the Church of Latter-day Saints, the Theosophical Society, the BranchDavidians, and Scientology. Throughout the course, students seek toanswer the following questions: why do new religious traditions arise,how do they thrive, and does the context of American culture haveanything to do with their success or failure?RS 0267 Mormonism: An American Church3 CreditsPrerequisite: RS 0101.Who are the Mormons? This course seeks to answer this very question.Beginning with the birth of its prophet Joseph Smith and proceedinginto Mormon life in the 21st century, the course traces the history ofMormonism as it moved from millennial religious movement to formalChurch. We will examine the scripture, beliefs, practices, and missionof Mormonism and how they function within the church and within theMormon community. We will also explore the paradox of Mormonism'scontroversial reputation and its popularity, examining how Mormons havecombatted negative perceptions and adapted in order to survive -- and,ultimately, thrive.RS 0270 Introduction to Islam3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course introduces Islam as a global religion and civilization. After abrief historical overview, the course focuses on the foundational conceptsof Islam - Quran, Prophet, Ritual and Community, and then analyzes howthese concepts are interpreted in the main intellectual traditions, in theways that Islam is practiced in different cultures and in the works ofmodern thinkers.RS 0273 Islamic Ethical and Legal Thought3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course examines the different ways that ethical and legal thoughthave been formulated and practiced within Islam. Students will gain abasic understanding of Islamic law and the legal schools associatedwith it. The nature of Muslim ethics will be explored in a numbercomplementary and competing discourses including the law, Muslimphilosophy, Suﬁsm, theology, and political theory. Students will analyzepre-modern and modern case studies. Topics to be discussed includegovernance, war, sex, and biomedical ethics. Our readings will consist ofprimary sources in translation and current secondary literature.RS 0275 Islam in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, ASUP American StudiesUpper Level, UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course is a survey of Muslim life and religious movementsconnected to Islam in North America. The course traces the history ofIslam on the continent from the Atlantic slave trade to the post-9/11era. We will investigate the many ways in which Islam, as both a religionand idea, has appeared on the American horizon and in the Americanimagination. The historic diversity of Muslim communities on thecontinent will be explored through their respective beliefs, cultures, andsense of identity. Special attention will be paid to the African-Americanand Immigrant Muslim communities.RS 0276 Islamic Theology3 CreditsPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course is a survey of major tenets of Muslim belief, points ofdifference, and schools of theological thought. We will explore importantpoints of faith and investigate the debates that have emerged over thecourse of Islamic history. Special attention will be paid to the areas ofdoctrinal formulation, scholastic theology and mystical thought. Ourprimary readings will consist of both primary sources in translation andcurrent secondary literature.RS 0280 Hinduism3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course introduces the seminal texts, concepts, and images ofthe major religious tradition of India. Topics include Vedic ritualism;Upanishadic mysticism; yoga meditation; the Bhagavad Gita; the castesystem; Vedanta philosophy; the cults of Rama, Krishna, Shiva, and theGoddess; and Gandhi's philosophy of non-violent action. The courseviews Hinduism as a historical phenomenon, a formative influence onIndian culture and society, and a response to the human condition.RS 0285 Buddhism3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course explores the Indian Buddhist tradition, from its beginningin the life of Shakyamuni Buddha through the present revival of neo-Buddhism in the activism of oppressed classes. The course considersthe early formative ideas of the Buddha - the Awakened One - as theyunfold in the course of Indian history and society, and discusses Buddhistmeditation and philosophy as procedures devised to elicit the awakenedstate. Using written and visual works, the course examines developmentsin Buddhist religious orders, lay social life, and the rise of the GreatVehicle tradition. Art and archaeology provide a context for Buddhism'scompelling missionary activity throughout Central and Southeast Asia.RS 0286 Buddhism in the United States3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.This course will explore the history, sources and forms of Buddhism thathave prospered in the United States since the mid 19th century, with theemigration of Chinese to California. Subsequent developments will alsobe examined: Pure land, beat zen, hippie Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism,and emigrant communities from Japan, China and Southeast Asia amongothers. The "two communities" model (impoverished emigrant vs. wealthyconvert Buddhism) will be explored. Visits to Buddhist centers in theNortheast will be part of the program, and if possible, visits from Buddhistrepresentatives to the class. Film, literature and other media will informthe course as well.RS 0289 Tantrism3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: RS 0101.The course covers the medieval formation of tantrism, a pan-Indianapproach to religion that was to develop separate but related subculturesin Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism. With its ability to sacralizeformulations of power and sexuality, it went on to become the mostwidely spread form of Buddhism, with premodern forms found in Tibet,China, Japan, and Eastern Europe. Recent expressions have been foundall over the world. The course examines questions of tantrism's medievalorigins, its espousal of antinomian conduct, its geographical spread,attempts at its domestication, and its recent developments in India andabroad.
RS 0299 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsPrerequisite: RS 0101.Students and faculty in this course will engage in an in-depth explorationof a signiﬁcant topic in the ﬁeld of Religious Studies. The content willvary in successive offerings of this course, depending on the professor.The course may be repeated with the consent of the professor.RS 0300 Second Temple Judaism and the Dead Sea Scrolls3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.The Dead Sea Scrolls have rightly been called the greatest manuscriptdiscovery of the twentieth century. Discovered in 1947, they have madea tremendous impact on how scholars today understand Judaism andChristianity in antiquity. Our examination of the community, texts, andarcheology of the Dead Sea Scrolls will begin with a study of the SecondTemple Period (520 BCE-70 CE), one of the most important in the historyof Judaism. This course will examine the political, social, and theologicaldevelopments of this period so that the community of the Dead SeaScrolls and their writings may be situated within their proper context.Students will learn to read primary texts closely and secondary textscritically as they consider the influence and relationship between textsand their community.RS 0301 Religious Diversity in Early Judaism and Christianity3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.This course examines the emergence of Early Judaism during theancient and late antique period (450 BCE-650 CE) and the many differentexpressions that it had, many of which did not survive into the modernperiod. Among the groups that will be studied are the Samaritans,Sadducees, Zealots, Pharisees, Essenes, and Christians. This course willconsider how different Jewish communities, both inside and outsidethe land of Judea, constructed images of the "other" as they sought todevelop distinct religious identities. In addition to a focus on primarytexts from this time period, secondary readings will be introduced thatcontextualize these groups in antiquity.RS 0315 Modern Jewish Theology3 CreditsAttributes: JST Judaic Studies MinorPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This course explores ways in which Jews have sought to know God.While Judaism has long maintained that ultimately God is unknowable,divine and human action, reason, revelation, mystical insight, and prayerare among the paths taken by Jews to gain theological knowledge.Included will be a discussion of works by several 19th- through 21stc. theologians (e.g., Buber, Baeck, Rosenzweig, Heschel, Fackenheim,Greenberg, Plaskow) in drawing on these paths and in discussing suchtopics as the nature of the divine covenant, the role of human autonomy,liturgical images of God, and faith after Auschwitz.RS 0320 Reinterpretation of the New Testament3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisites: RS 0101; RS 0220 or RS 0221 or RS 0222.This introduction to the critical study of the New Testament and itsChristologies reviews the varying titles for Jesus, comparing them withthe original Jewish or Greek usage. The course considers the process ofreinterpretation of Jesus in the New Testament as a possible model forinterpretation today.RS 0325 Quest for the Historical Jesus3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This course examines the increasingly public debate over whetheran adequate basis exists for reconstructing a description of the lifeof Jesus of Nazareth. It examines the evidence available from allsources, the criteria by which that evidence has been interpreted, andthe resulting, often contradictory, portrayals. The course also discussesthe relationship between this "historical Jesus" and the subsequent faithtradition of Christianity.RS 0343 The Papacy3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious Studies, ISIF Italian Studies:Italy-FocusedPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This survey of the Roman Catholic papacy, generally focuses on a singleﬁgure, theme, or period, and places that ﬁgure, theme, or period withinthe larger historical, cultural, and ecclesial context. A signiﬁcant part ofthe course treats theological issues, using as texts either papal writings,signiﬁcant encyclicals, or conciliar statements and actions. The coursealso includes a critical assessment of the role of the papacy within theRoman Catholic Church and a consideration of the role of the papacy ininterreligious dialogue and world affairs.RS 0350 The Classic: Truth in Religion and the Arts3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This course examines the idea of the classic as a model for establishingrelationships between religious language on the one hand, and poeticdiscourse and artistic expression on the other. What truth do classics layclaim to and how do they embody it? The course compares secular andreligious classics before investigating the value of the classic model inthe process of doing theology.RS 0354 Saints and Sinners: Images of Holiness in ContemporaryFiction3 CreditsAttributes: CARS Catholic Studies: Religious StudiesPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This course examines the complexity of current understandings of whatit is to be holy. It begins with a brief consideration of traditional modelsof holiness. It turns next to several influential theories of spiritual growth,and then, in the light of these theories, looks at a series of 20th-centurynovels that examine the idea of holiness. Authors vary but includeGeorges Bernanos, Shusaku Endo, Mary Gordon, Graham Greene, DavidLodge, Flannery O'Connor, Gloria Naylor, Muriel Spark, and Jean Sullivan.RS 0360 I'm Spiritual, Not Religious: The American SpiritualTradition3 CreditsAttributes: ASRS American Studies: Religion, ASUP American StudiesUpper LevelPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level religious studies course.This course examines a strand of anti-institutionalism in Americanreligion, one, which has culminated in the increasingly popular andubiquitous phrase, "I'm spiritual, but not religious." The claim tospirituality, but not to religiosity, has a rich history in the United Statescontext, beginning in the earliest periods of European settlement. Inthis course, students will investigate the evolution of this thoroughlyAmerican phenomenon across U.S. history and through the examplesof spiritual Americans. Students will consider whether the phrase, "I'mspiritual, but not religious," though often intended as a statement of one'sseparateness from religious institutions, has become the marker of adistinctive religious afﬁliation.
RS 0363 Religious Values in Film3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.This course focuses on the search for meaning in human life asexperienced and depicted in 12 ﬁlms by distinguished ﬁlmmakers.The ﬁrst six ﬁlms mirror this search in personal life, asking in variousways whether we are isolated and alone or linked and dependent onothers. They also grapple with the problem of evil and the experience ofsalvation. The second six ﬁlms concern themselves with the meaningof life in society. In different historical contexts they ask whether theuniverse is indifferent or friendly to our community building, and raise theproblem of God and the religious signiﬁcance of secular achievement.RS 0377 Suﬁsm and Islamic Spirituality3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.In this course, students will study the beliefs, history, and practices foundin different forms of Islamic spirituality, especially the mystical traditionof Suﬁsm. During the course of this semester students will look at severalspiritual movements from across the Muslim world with special attentiongiven to the Middle East, the Subcontinent of India, Sub-Saharan Africaand Europe/America. The course will include critical readings of famousmystics like Rumi, Haﬁz, and Ibn 'Arabi, and the examination of importantelements from Islamic religiosity.RS 0379 Islam, Race, Power3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.Students will undertake a critical investigation of "race" and "ethnicity"within Islam from the classical period to the present. The courseexamines how different Muslims approached the concepts as well ashow those concepts were applied to or imposed upon particular Muslimcommunities. The historical experience of Black Muslims serves as arecurring case study. Moreover, the relationship of race to power is also acentral analytical theme. Topics to be discussed include the constructionof "race," slavery and its abolition, the Blackamerican Muslim experience,and Muslim theologies of liberation and resistance. The course isresearch and writing intensive.RS 0388 Buddhist Spirituality3 CreditsAttributes: WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.The course explores the cultivation of meditation and spirituality in theBuddhist tradition, its embodiment in seminal ﬁgures in India, China,Japan, and Tibet, and their individual expressions of contemplation andspiritual experience. The association of these Buddhist saints with valuesystems, speciﬁc sites, and sacred activities is examined, especially asthe relationships between these persons and their activity in the worldreflect their religious path. Particular emphasis is placed on the questionsof religious inspiration and creativity, and the manner that these areformed in the process of training in contemplation.RS 0398 Independent Study1-3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.Students, in consultation with a department director, deﬁne their courseof study.RS 0399 Religious Studies Seminar3 CreditsPrerequisites: RS 0101 and one 200-level Religious Studies course.This seminar offers an in-depth investigation of a signiﬁcant ﬁgure, issue,or problem in religious studies. Enrollment requires the permission of theinstructor.Russian (RU)RU 0110 Elementary Russian I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Russian or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.RU 0111 Elementary Russian II3 CreditsPrerequisite: RU 0110.This course, a continuation of RU 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.RU 0210 Intermediate Russian I3 CreditsPrerequisite: RU 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.) Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.RU 0211 Intermediate Russian II3 CreditsPrerequisite: RU 0210.This course, a continuation of RU 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practicein speaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through awide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.) Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.Russian, Eastern European, and Central Asian Studies (RES)RES 0310 Capstone Seminar: Current Topics in Russia, Eastern Europe,and Central Asia3 CreditsThis interdisciplinary seminar, team-taught by faculty members fromdifferent disciplines or available as an independent project, focuseson current and changing developments in Russia, Eastern Europe, orCentral Asia and covers culture, politics, business, and economics,enabling students to integrate their different disciplines in a case-studyformat. The course includes oral and written assignments in addition to aspecial seminar project, designed by students in close consultation withinstructors. Open to juniors and seniors only.RES 0395 Internship in Russian and East European Studies3 CreditsCandidates work a minimum of eight hours per week during the semestereither for the Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies Programdirector, helping with publicity, coordination, and public events, or foran organization or business in the area doing work in Russia, EasternEurope, or Central Asia. Under the direction of a faculty member inRussian, East European and Central Asian studies, interns regularly reporton their work and write an evaluation of the experience at the end of thesummer. The internship is available only to juniors and seniors seeking aminor in Russian, East European, and Central Asian studies.
Sociology (SO)SO 0011 Introduction to Sociology3 CreditsThis introduction to sociology provides students with a sense ofsociology's orientation; its particular way of looking at human behaviorin the context of people's interaction with each other. The courseemphasizes the kinds of questions sociology asks, the methods it usesto search for answers, and how it applies the answers to problems ofpeople's everyday lives and issues of social policy.SO 0112 American Society3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASSO American Studies:Sociology, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course analyzes the dominant ideology and values that have shapedAmerican culture -- namely the Protestant ethic -- and how and whythese values are changing. The course also analyzes major institutionaltrends that have transformed and continue to transform America and themodern world - bureaucratization, industrialization, urbanization, the riseof the business corporation, science, and technology - and the effectsof these institutions in producing new personality types, mass society,and rapid social change. The course provides a macro-sociologicalframework.SO 0142 Sociology of the Family3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, WSGC Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender ComponentThe family is a basic social institution of all societies. This course, whichexamines family systems as they exist in other cultures and in times past,focuses on understanding the contemporary American family system.Students consider American patterns of dating, mate selection, sexualbehavior, marriage, parenting, and aging, as well as alternative life stylesand family instability.SO 0144 Sociology of Sexuality3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, WSGF Women, Gender,and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course explores the social construction of human sexual behavior,examining the influence of social institutions on sexuality, socialresponses to variations in behaviors, and the organization of sexualidentities.SO 0151 Sociology of Religion3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course offers a combined theoretical and empirical treatment of thesociology of religion, the character of religious institutions, the relationsof religious institutions with other institutions in society, and the internalsocial structure of religious institutions. It gives particular attention to theprocess of secularization in the modern world and the crisis this posesfor traditional religion.SO 0161 American Class Structure3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASSO American Studies:Sociology, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course examines the roots and structure of class in the UnitedStates and the consequences of this hierarchical arrangement oneveryday life. It focuses primarily on social class; however, the dynamicsand consequences of social class cannot be fully understood withoutaddressing the complex interconnections between class, race, andgender.SO 0162 Race, Gender, and Ethnic Relations3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASSO American Studies:Sociology, BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate,EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, PJST Peace and Justice Studies,UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGC Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: GenderComponentThis course analyses sociological and social psychological dimensionsof race relations, ethnic interaction, and the changing role and status ofwomen. It focuses on the American scene but also examines problemsof women and minorities in other parts of the world and their importancefor world politics. It also considers what sociologists and socialpsychologists have learned about improving dominant/minority relations.SO 0163 Urban/Suburban Sociology: NYC3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, BSCC Black StudiesComponent Course, BSSS Black Studies: Social and Behavioral SciencesThis course explores the nature of the city and growth of metropolitanregions in the contemporary world; the ecological approach and theuse of demographic data in the analysis of modern urban communities;social organization of metropolitan regions and the emergence of urban-suburban conflict; big-city politics, community control, and regionalgovernment as dimensions of organization and disorganization in citylife; and city planning and urban development at local and national levelsas efforts to solve the urban crisis.SO 0165 Race, Cities, and Poverty3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, BSFC Black Studies FocusCourse, BSSS Black Studies: Social and Behavioral Sciences, EDCGEducational Studies Cognate, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, UDIV U.S.DiversityThe geography of cities is in constant flux. People move in and out,businesses open and close, city government institutes social policy inresponse to existing changes in different communities. Many of thechanges in cities have been influenced by racial-ethnic and economicdynamics. In this course we will examine the ways race has shapedour perceptions of and responses to community. Why are urban areas"racialized"? Why does talk of the underclass imply black Americansand Latinos? We will focus primarily on black Americans, but will alsoconsider white ethnic groups and other ethnic groups in discussion. Inour examinations we will focus on case studies of urbanization and racesuch as post-Katrina New Orleans, southern migration to Chicago, andBridgeport.SO 0166 Feminism, Gender, and Everyday Life3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASSO American Studies:Sociology, PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course provides an introduction to the study of gender through afeminist lens. The central themes of the course are the changes andcontinuities of gender roles within the United States, the social processesthat influence our gender identities, and the connections between gender,power, and inequality. The course addresses the ways in which themedia, popular culture, work, and schools have been pivotal sites for thecreation and maintenance of gender performances, and explores sites ofresistance in art and activism. The course pays special attention to theways in which race, class, and sexualities intersect processes of genderrelations and social change.
SO 0169 Women: Work and Sport3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, PJST Peace and JusticeStudies, UDIV U.S. Diversity, WSGF Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies: Gender FocusedSex and gender stratiﬁcation exists in most areas of everyday lifethroughout American society. This course concentrates on women in theworkplace and in sport. It analyzes women's occupational status and theaccompanying roles from the colonial period to the present from a varietyof theoretical perspectives. Since sport is a microcosm of society, thecourse treats the perceptions and experiences of female athletes in 20th-century America as a mirror of the inequality within the larger world.SO 0171 Criminology3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: SociologyThis course examines crime rates and crime trends in the U.S. Theories ofcriminal behavior are critically analyzed. It also explores victimless crime,white collar crime and organized crime. Societal responses to crime andcriminals are addressed.SO 0175 Sociology of Law3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: SociologyBased in the relationship of law and society, this course explores themeaning of law, civil disobedience, and other challenges, and law as anagent of social change. It takes as its major theme legal equality versussocial inequality and analyzes this theme in terms of discriminationagainst the poor, women, and various racial groups. Students discussthe role of lawyers, the police, and the courts in American society in thesecond half of the semester.SO 0179 Death Penalty in America3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, PJST Peace and JusticeStudiesThis course is an in-depth analysis of capital punishment. The historyof the death penalty and its contemporary status in the U.S. is explored.Public opinion and the decisions of the courts, prosecutors, and juriesare addressed. Some of the questions raised include the following: Isthe death penalty a deterrent? Is it racially biased? Does it victimize thepoor? Are the innocent ever convicted and executed? What sociologicalfactors influence clemency decisions? How is the U.S. position on thedeath penalty perceived by the international community?SO 0184 Population: Birth, Death, and Migration3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social Science, WDIV World DiversityDemography, the study of population, is the basis of this course. Itexamines the causes and consequences of population change. Thecourse addresses global population problems and those faced by theUnited States. Students analyze real demographic data during weeklydemographic techniques sessions.SO 0185 Introduction to International Migration3 CreditsAttributes: BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate,HACA Humanitarian Action Minor Context Course, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, WDIV World DiversityThis course examines the causes, processes, and concerns ofinternational migration, which are explored through the use of casestudies that include a wide range of countries from different worldregions. These case studies include international migrants, such asrefugees, labor migrants, and undocumented migrants. In addition tostudying the migrants and the reasons for their international movement,participants have the opportunity to discuss opposing perspectives onthe immigration policies of developed countries.SO 0188 Contemporary Latin American and Caribbean Society3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectiveThis course introduces the basic political, economic, and sociologicalelements of contemporary Latin America and the Caribbean. It beginswith an overview of the historical events that have shaped the region.While examining the region as a whole, this course also emphasizesthe political, economic, and cultural diversity that characterizes LatinAmerica and the Caribbean. Drawing from several disciplines, whileemphasizing sociological approaches, this course explains someof the positive, as well as the more dubious events in contemporaryLatin American and Caribbean society. Topics include popular culture,migration, political change, regional integration, urbanization, gender, andinequality, among others. Case studies will be selected for more detaileddiscussion based on current events.SO 0189 Sociology of Europe3 CreditsThis course introduces the basic political, economic, and sociologicalelements of contemporary Europe. It begins with an overview of historicalevents that have shaped the region. While examining the region asa whole, this course also emphasizes the political, socioeconomicand more recent cultural diversity that characterizes the Europeancontinent. Topics include political developments and regional integrationsuch as the creation of the European Union, geopolitical dilemmas,popular culture, migration, social change, public policies, inequality andsecularization. A comparative macro-sociological framework will be usedto discuss differences and similarities with contemporary Americansociety.SO 0190 Globalization3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: SociologyThe single most powerful force transforming the world in which we live isthe accelerating process of globalization. Information from the Internet,ideas, technology, products, services (and even people, the slowest tomove) are all moving within and across national boundaries every hour ofevery day. As Joseph Stiglitz, former chief economist for the World Bank,puts it, "Globalization is like a giant wave that can either capsize nationsor carry them forward on its crest." The goal of this course is to beginto understand the complex causes and effects of globalization. What'sdriving it and what kind of future is it likely to bring?SO 0191 Social Change in Developing Nations3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, WDIV World DiversityThis course examines the major societal changes occurring in developingcountries, seeking answers to two basic questions: To what extent arethe current modernization efforts of Third World nations comparable tothe earlier experience of the United States and Western Europe? Howdo existing inequalities and dependencies between developed countriesand Third World nations affect their chances of modernizing? Studentscomplete a semester-long Web-based study of a particular country.SO 0192 Social Work: An Introduction3 CreditsAttributes: HSSS Health Studies: Social ScienceThis overview of the social work profession emphasizes the knowledgebase, theories, values, and skills that underlie generalist social workpractice with individuals, groups, families, and communities. Studentsconsider a range of social problems and social policy concerns as well asthe impact of these issues on diverse client populations. The course alsoconducts a related exploration of the role of the social worker in agencysettings and the various ﬁelds of practice.
SO 0193 History of Social Welfare3 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, HSSS Health Studies:Social Science, PJST Peace and Justice StudiesThe course explores the development of the social work professionwithin the context of the evolution of social welfare in the United States,emphasizing the political, economic, social, and philosophical forcesthat have forged social welfare policy and helped shape the social workprofession. Exploration of the importance of divisions in Americansociety regarding social justice and issues of class, race, ethnicity, andgender provide a framework through which to view current controversiessuch as welfare reform and the feminization of poverty.SO 0194 Sociology of Education3 CreditsAttributes: BSCC Black Studies Component Course, BSSS Black Studies:Social and Behavioral Sciences, EDCG Educational Studies Cognate,EDDV Educational Studies Diversity, UDIV U.S. DiversityThis course introduces students to sociological perspectives oneducation. We will focus on the structure, practices, content, andoutcomes of schooling in contemporary society. Throughout thesemester, we address three fundamental questions. What are the primarygoals of American education? Why are there systematic patterns ofrace, class, and gender inequality in education? How can we use thesociological lens to understand, contextualize, and alleviate educationalproblems in the real world? Drawing upon readings dealing primarily withAmerican education, we discuss how educational experiences influenceimportant life outcomes including lifetime earnings, health status, andinteraction with the criminal justice system.SO 0221 Statistics: Social and Political Data Analysis4 CreditsAttributes: EVAP Environmental Studies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisite: SO 0011.This course provides a basic introduction to the role of statisticalanalysis in understanding social and political data, with an emphasis onactual data analysis using the University's computer facilities. It uses anextensive social and political data archive including 2000 Census data,political polls, and national survey data for computer analysis.SO 0222 Methods of Research Design4 CreditsAttributes: ASSO American Studies: Sociology, EVAP EnvironmentalStudies: Applied Professional SkillsPrerequisite: SO 0011.This course examines the nature and function of scientiﬁc methods asapplied to the ﬁeld of sociology, emphasizing survey research design andsecondary analysis of existing data. Student teams design and conductresearch projects as part of the course assignments.SO 0228 Classical Social Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: SO 0011.This course in sociological theory concentrates on the writings of Smith,Marx, Durkheim, and Weber, placing their theories in the context of thesocial, economic, political, and intellectual turmoil of the late 18th andearly 19th centuries. The course includes a focus on the developmentof sociology as a discipline in the early 20th century and the enduringconcerns of the perspective to analyze "modern" industrialized societies.SO 0229 Contemporary Social Theory3 CreditsPrerequisite: SO 0011.This course focuses on contemporary American and European sociologyand its development after 1945, examining critical social theory,structural functionalism, symbolic interactionism, ethnomethodology,feminism, world systems theory and post modernism. Contemporaryapplication is a central concern in the course.SO 0279 Criminal Justice System Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: ASUP American Studies Upper Level, PJST Peace and JusticeStudiesThis seminar explores in detail the workings and problems of the criminaljustice system in the United States. In addition to investigating thesources of criminal behavior, the course focuses on the arraignmentprocess, probation, the trial, sentencing, prison reform, and parole.SO 0390 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsSpecial Topics in Sociology provides an opportunity for studentsand faculty to explore compelling themes that are not covered in thedepartment's regular course rotation and curriculum.SO 0397 Field Work Placement3 CreditsIn this one- or two-semester internship program, students are placed inprofessional and service settings where they work under supervision andacquire experience in the area chosen for placement. In addition, theyintegrate their experiences with the intellectual foundation acquired intheir academic courses. Open to senior majors only.SO 0398 Field Work Placement3 or 6 CreditsIn this one- or two-semester internship program, students are placed inprofessional and service settings where they work under supervision andacquire experience in the area chosen for placement. In addition, theyintegrate their experiences with the intellectual foundation acquired intheir academic courses. Open to senior majors only.SO 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsUpon the request and by agreement of an individual professor in thedepartment, students undertake a one-semester independent study on adeﬁned research topic or ﬁeld.Software Engineering (SW)SW 0300 Software Engineering Methods3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.This course explores the requirements gathering, system analysis,and software design methods of software application following thesoftware processes required for the production of high quality software.Techniques for creating documentation and using software developmenttools will be presented. Students will gain experience in softwareproject management, requirements, analysis, and safety issues insoftware development; interpersonal skills for management and teammembership; and the software engineering discernment of systemsarchitecture. Previously SW 0201.SW 0301 Software Design Methods3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0300.This course is the continuation of SW 0300 with in-depth projectsand further discussions of design and implementation topics.Through the use of case studies and project work that has the studentgradually building a large design speciﬁcation, students will achievean understanding of how complex applications are designed and built.Previously SW 0202.
SW 0304 Web Development3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production ComponentPrerequisite: CS 0131.This course introduces the student to developing applications for use onthe World Wide Web. Students learn basic n-tier concepts for designingdistributed applications and gain hands on experience through theconstruction of Web-based applications. The course covers conceptsthat allow communication over the Web. This includes designing andauthoring Web pages, markup languages, the client-side document objectmodel, usability, search engine optimization, and client-side dynamic Webpages.SW 0305 Mobile Application Development3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0131.This project-oriented course examines the fundamental aspects of mobilecomputing, application architecture, and mobile application design anddevelopment. Students will learn application development on the Androidplatform. Students will complete a hands-on project building a prototypemobile application. Topics include user interface design and building,input and data handling, and network techniques and GPS and motionsensing. Students are expected to work on a project that produces aprofessional-quality mobile application. Projects will be deployed in real-world applications.SW 0314 Network Concepts3 CreditsThis course covers the structure and technologies of computer networksarchitecture including cabling, wiring hubs, ﬁle servers, bridges, routers,and network interface cards. It discusses network software and hardwareconﬁgurations protocol stacks and connecting a personal computer toa network. The course examines the OSI-model, TCP/IP protocol, androuting protocols. Students will be able to create a subnet of TCP/IPnetworks.SW 0320 Software Testing and Maintenance3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0300.This course will cover in-depth methods for software testing, reliabilityand maintenance of software. Students will learn the principles ofsoftware testing and how to apply software testing techniques to thedevelopment of quality software and how to deploy software systems,maintain, enhance and reuse software systems.SW 0321 Software Project Management3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0300.This course explores and practices fundamental project managementskills and life cycles required for both the successful managementand development of software. Quality management principles ofPersonal Software Process (PSP) and Team Software Process (TSP) areintroduced and practiced. Students will learn how to develop a projectplan, scope a project, identify project activities, create work breakdownstructures, estimate and schedule resources, construct and analyzeproject network diagrams, ﬁnalize project schedule and cost based onresource activity, recruit team members, organize and manage a projectteam, monitor and control progress, understand critical path projectmanagement, and have knowledge of both agile and traditional projectmanagement methods. Previously SW 0204.SW 0348 Server Management3 CreditsServer Management is a course designed to provide the student withthe tools necessary to manage Window Server. The topics include usermanagement, installation and conﬁguration of web server, mail server,FTP server, LDAP and backup, and other routine system and networkadministration.SW 0355 Database Management Systems3 CreditsPrerequisite: CS 0232.This course examines data formats, organizations, representationsand structures; design and analysis of searching, sorting, and otheralgorithms; data management systems; relational database model;domains and relational integrity; structured query language; databasedesign - logical and physical; entity-relationship diagrams; normalization;transaction processing; and database administration.SW 0382 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course provides an in-depth study of selected topics in softwareengineering of particular interest to the students and instructor. Thecourse is counted as a major elective/specialization course. The topicsand prerequisites will be announced when this course is offered.SW 0383 Independent Study1-3 CreditsThis course is an individualized study under the supervision of the facultymember. The course emphasizes individual creativity. Students work witha faculty mentor in studying and investigating topics of current interest insoftware engineering. Students may earn from one to for an independentstudy course. Enrollment by permission only.SW 0400 Software Engineering Methods3 CreditsThis course explores the requirements gathering, system analysis,software design methods and prototyping of software applicationfollowing the software processes required for the production of highquality software. Techniques for creating documentation and usingsoftware development tools will be presented. Students will gainexperience in software project management; requirements, analysis, anddesign; procedural maturity; social, ethical, cultural, and safety issues insoftware development; interpersonal skills for management and teammembership; and the software engineering discernment of systemsarchitecture.SW 0401 Software Design Methods3 CreditsThis course is designed to introduce fundamental concepts of objectorientation techniques.Through the use of case studies and projectwork that has the student gradually building a large design speciﬁcation,students will achieve an understanding of how complex applications aredesigned and built.SW 0402 Database Management Systems3 CreditsThis course focuses on the steps required to build and maintain relationaldatabase infrastructure for modern n-tiered applications. It covers logicaland physical design; implementation of the database; the use of thedatabase to meet the informational needs of a software system; andthe installation, operation and maintenance of the software. Speciﬁctopics include database design, SQL, interacting with the DBMS, backupand recovery of data security. Students perform a number of hands-onexercises using the Oracle Database Server running on the MicrosoftWindows platform. This course serves as one of the bridge courses to theMSSE program.SW 0404 Network Concepts3 CreditsThis course covers the structure and technologies of computer networksarchitecture including cabling, wiring hubs, ﬁle servers, bridges, routers,and network interface cards. It discusses network software and hardwareconﬁgurations and demonstrates network concepts such as conﬁguringprotocol stacks and connecting a personal computer to a network. Thecourse examines the OSI-model, TCP/IP protocol and routing protocols.Student will be able to do subnet of TCP/IP networks.
SW 0406 Web Client Side Development I3 CreditsAttributes: ENPC Digital Journalism Production ComponentThis course introduces the student to developing browser applications foruse on the web. Students learn client side concepts including the displayof static information. The course topics include designing and authoringweb pages, usability, search engine optimization, markup languages, stylesheet, the client side document object model, and making web pagesdynamic on the client side.SW 0407 Java for Programmers3 CreditsThis course is a study of object oriented software component design.This course introduces object oriented programming and its use inproblem solving with abstract data types such as lists, linked lists,stacks, queues, graphs, and trees. This course serves as one of the bridgecourses to the MSSE program.SW 0409 Advanced Programming in Java3 CreditsThis course covers advanced topic of Java programming. Topic coversmultithreading, networking, nested references, design patterns, JDBC,persistence, I/O and advanced GUI such as swing. Data structureconcepts such as linked list, tree and basic searching and sortingalgorithms will be covered. Lab included.SW 0410 Enterprise Java3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0409.Advanced server-side Java technologies. Coverage includes state-of-the-art explorations into server-side technologies such as JDBC, Google WebToolkit, Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB), Android, XML, etc., as time permits.Lab included.SW 0416 Mobile Application Development3 CreditsThis project-oriented course examines the fundamental aspects of mobilecomputing, application architecture, and mobile application design anddevelopment. Students will learn application development on the Androidplatform. Students will complete a hands-on project building a prototypemobile application. Topics include user interface design and building,input and data handling, and network techniques and GPS and motionsensing. Students are expected to work on a project that produces aprofessional-quality mobile application. Projects will be deployed in real-world applications.SW 0420 Software Testing and Maintenance3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0400.This course will cover in-depth methods for software testing, reliabilityand maintenance of software. Students will learn the principles ofsoftware testing and how to apply software testing techniques to thedevelopment of quality software and how to deploy software systems,maintain, enhance and reuse software systems.SW 0421 Software Project Management3 CreditsThis course explores software project activities from conception tocompletion based on best practices. Topics include software systemsengineering, personal/team software process management and control,and project planning and management. Through group and individualactivities, students apply project management tools and techniques, andaddress typical problems that occur during the life cycle of the softwareproject.SW 0427 Operating Systems and Programming3 CreditsThis course introduces the internal operation of modern operatingsystems and students learn how to program on non-Window OSplatform. The topics cover a brief history of operating system, the majorcomponents of modern operating systems, and the object-orientedmethodology on UNIX-like platform. Various UNIX tools will be used in thecourse and participants study examples using object-oriented programsas well as large system integration by object-oriented methodology.SW 0448 Server Management3 CreditsServer Management is a course designed to provide the student withthe tools necessary to manage Window Server. The topics include usermanagement, installation and conﬁguration of web server, mail server,FTP server, LDAP and backup and other routine system and networkadministration.SW 0461 Pattern Recognition3 CreditsThis course introduces the student to the techniques used andcapabilities of modern pattern recognition systems with an emphasison those that can learn and improve their performance as they areused. After a short review of some necessary mathematical concepts(Probability, Stochastic Processes and Vector Spaces), the studentis introduced to the problem of representing real-world problems to asystem. Selected real world applications are used to show examples ofsome valid representations (e.g. Speech and Handwriting) to provideinsight and experience in the application of recognition systems. Severalimportant recognition engines are then described and analyzed for theireffectiveness in recognition/synthesis/learning systems. The use ofadditional knowledge bases dealing with the problem environment isthen introduced to increase system performance and overall recognitionsystem structures are discussed.SW 0482 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course provides an in-depth study of selected topics in softwareengineering of particular interest to the students and instructor. Thecourse is counted as a major elective/specialization course. The topicsand prerequisites will be announced when this course is offered.SW 0482F Special Topics: Network Security3 CreditsThis course is intended for individuals who need an understanding of theclient-server environment, with any emphasis on network security. TheOSI Model, network concepts and network architecture are discussed.The components that make up a network, including cabling, wiring hubs,ﬁle servers, bridges, switches, routers, network interface cards, networkoperating systems, and network software and hardware conﬁgurationsare discussed. Network architectural concepts, wide area networks,remote access, and segmentation are discussed. Operating systems willbe discussed and demonstrated. Featured is the seven-layer OSI model,the foundation of today's communication protocols. Topics studied inthe router sections include a review of the OSI model, wide area networksand the role of routers in networks, router command language interface,router startup and setup, router conﬁguration, router operating systemimage ﬁles, TCP/IP and IP addressing, routing, routing protocols, andnetwork troubleshooting. Students will learn how routers function andhow to determine differences between routing protocol use. Students willwork with various security protocols and conﬁgure routers and switcheswith security methods.SW 0483 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course is an individualized study under the supervision of the facultymember. The course emphasizes individual creativity. Students work witha faculty mentor in studying and investigating topics of current interest insoftware engineering. Students may earn from one to for an independentstudy course.SW 0499 Algorithms3 CreditsThis course explores the development and evaluation of algorithms. Thisclass covers classic algorithms, algorithm analysis, searching and sortingalgorithms, dynamic programming, heuristics, and graphic algorithms.Algorithm efﬁciency and performance is a focus as the student gainsexperiences through problems and programming projects.
SW 0505 Advanced Database Concepts3 CreditsThis course covers topics in database implementation designed toprovide software engineers with a wide variety of server-side problemsolving techniques. Topics include cursors, query and index optimization,advanced SQL programming, distributed databases, object-orienteddatabases, clustering, partitioning, and working with XML and otherunstructured data. While Microsoft SQL Server is primarily used fordemonstration, the topics covered are applicable to any databaseplatform, and the different approaches of the major database vendors arefrequently contrasted. Format consists of lecture and lab.SW 0508 Data Warehouse Systems3 CreditsThis course examines the tools, techniques and processes used in thedesign and development of data warehouses. As such we will examinehow to successfully gather structure, analyze, and understand the datato be stored in the data warehouse, discuss techniques for modelingthe data in the data warehouse, discuss the ETL process and describetechniques for presenting and analyzing the data in the warehouse.We will also discuss capacity planning and performance monitoring.Microsoft Analysis Services and Sybase ASIQ will be examined asapproaches for implementing a data warehouse.SW 0512 Web Development II with ASP.NET3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0304 or SW 0406.This course teaches site developers how to create robust, scalable, data-driven ASP.NET Web. Students learn how to create ASP.NET applicationsusing a text editor and the command-line tools, as well as using VisualStudio. Topics include the .NET framework, web forms, validationcontrols, database connectivity, web services, component development,user controls, custom server controls, and best practices, etc. At theend of the course, students are able to describe the issues involvedin creating an enterprise web site, creating and publishing a web site,creating interactive content for a Web site, adding server scripting toa Web page using ASP.NET, implementing security in a Web site, andreading and writing information to a database from ASP.NET.SW 0516 PHP/MySQL3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0406.This course is an introduction to the PHP programming language.Topics include installation and conﬁguration with the Apache httpserver, variables and data types, language syntax, control structures,functions, strategies and tools for handling input and generating output,error handling, sending email, manipulating dates and times, stringmanipulation and regular expressions, SQL and MySQL database access.The course also covers advanced topics such as MVC model-based webapplication development using framework and packages from the PHPExtension and Application Repository (PEAR). At the conclusion of thecourse, students are able to design and implement scalable data-drivenweb applications.SW 0518 Data Mining and Business Intelligence3 CreditsThis course examines business intelligence concepts, methods andprocesses used to improve data-centric business decision supportsolutions with a particular focus on data mining techniques. We willﬁrst examine the principles and practices of gathering and retrievinglarge volumes of data for analysis and synthesis. Next we will examineanalytical techniques for extracting information from large data sets. Inparticular, the course examines the following data mining techniques:classiﬁcation, estimation, prediction, and clustering. During the coursewe will also discuss knowledge management, how organizations manageand use the knowledge that they acquire, and presentation of data.SW 0521 Information Visualization3 CreditsTopics covered include graphics programming, information visualizationgeneral principles, visualization techniques for 1-dimensional, 2-dimensional, and N-dimensional information, graph visualization,information visualization lifecycle: representation, presentation,interaction, perception and interpretation, as well as theories behindinformation visualization, and focus+context techniques. This coursealso includes the implementation of techniques presented in lecture.Students are encouraged to devise new techniques, implement them, anddetermine their effectiveness. Students will be required to complete in-depth assignments, read, summarize, and present recent journal papersfrom the information visualization literature, and prepare term paperswith regard to an information visualization research topic. Students willalso be required to specify, design, implement, and document a semester-long software project related to information visualization.SW 0530 Introduction to Information Security3 CreditsThis course gives students a fundamental understanding of currentSocial Engineering methods in the Information Security arena. Deceptionand human behavior is exploited to gain valuable information, which isvery relevant to today's growing security concerns. This course is anotherkey class in the Information Security track in the MSSE program andbuilds upon the weaknesses in the human factor. Areas of discussion willbe methods, current trends, and most of all countermeasures. Instructionincludes lectures and discussion assignments which involve analyzingcurrent work places and social gatherings coupled with scenarios ofexploitation.SW 0531 Applications and Data Security3 CreditsThis course is structured around enterprise and web applications andthe data security associated with these applications. It encompassesthe encryption schemes of transmission to execution of code andcomplete flight of an execution. Common countermeasure and bestbusiness practices that help ensure a solid security understanding arethe objectives of the course.SW 0550 Capstone Professional Project I3 CreditsPrerequisites: SW 0401 and completion of at least 9 credits of MSSEcourses.In these two semester capstone courses, students form teams, performa technical study, and design software systems based on either theircustomer's requirements, develop, test, and deploy software systems.The results of these projects provide a library of case studies, designs,and software development techniques, and project management skillsthat are of general interest to local information technology professionals.A capstone prospectus, approved by your advisor, must be submitted toand accepted by the director of the program prior to starting the capstonesequence.SW 0551 Capstone Professional Project II3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0550.In these two semester capstone courses, students form teams, performa technical study, and design software systems based on either theircustomer's requirements, develop, test, and deploy software systems.The results of these projects provide a library of case studies, designs,and software development techniques, and project management skillsthat are of general interest to local information technology professionals.A capstone prospectus, approved by your advisor, must be submitted toand accepted by the director of the program prior to starting the capstonesequence.
SW 0560 Software Engineering Thesis I3 CreditsPrerequisites: SW 0401 and completion of at least 18 credits of MSSEcourses.In these two semester thesis courses, a student will work on individualresearch project that a student should formulate as a problem, solve itunder the guidance of a faculty member and communicate the results.Work involves literature search, writing a proposal, analysis and/orimplementation with critical thinking, and writing convincingly. Thestudent must also submit a ﬁnal paper for possible publication in arefereed journal appropriate to the topic.SW 0561 Software Engineering Thesis II3 CreditsPrerequisite: SW 0560.In these two semester thesis courses, a student will work on individualresearch project that a student should formulate as a problem, solve itunder the guidance of a faculty member and communicate the results.Work involves literature search, writing a proposal, analysis and/orimplementation with critical thinking, and writing convincingly. Thestudent must also submit a ﬁnal paper for possible publication in arefereed journal appropriate to the topic.SW 0596 Network Routing and Switching3 CreditsThe course presents concepts and develops skills needed in designing,implementing, and troubleshooting local and wide-area networks.Students design and conﬁgure LAN, WAN using routers/switches andlearn the components of wireless networks, and how to conﬁgure andtroubleshoot a network and optimize its performance. The courseprovides also numerous lab opportunities to conﬁgure and troubleshootnetworks with Cisco routers and switches.SW 0599 Information Security Measures and Countermeasures3 CreditsThis course covers current information security practices andcountermeasures put in place to safeguard against security breaches.The course reviews Internet infrastructures such as ﬁrewalls, IDSsystems, and honey pots. Additional areas include risk analysis,computer-use policies, physical security, Internet/intranet security,Malware, ﬁrewall infrastructure, and current information security issues.Spanish (SP)SP 0110 Elementary Spanish I3 CreditsDesigned for students with no prior experience with Spanish or whoseplacement scores are in the range for this course level. This course, theﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, teaches the essentials of pronunciation,structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire the skills of listening,speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures are explored througha variety of media. Students attend three classes per week and domandatory online work determined by the instructor.SP 0111 Elementary Spanish II3 CreditsPrerequisite: SP 0110.This course, a continuation of SP 0110, teaches the essentials ofpronunciation, structure, and usage, allowing students to acquire theskills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Language cultures areexplored through a variety of media. Students attend three classes perweek and do mandatory online work determined by the instructor.SP 0208 Intermediate Spanish for Health Professionals3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and EthicsPrerequisite: SP 0111.This course covers the same language skills as SP 0210 with anemphasis on vocabulary and content related to the medical ﬁeld.Participants will continue the study of Spanish language on a moreadvanced level and will review essential points of grammar, vocabulary,and regular practice in speaking and writing. The course will providethe necessary language skills to deal with Spanish speaking patients inhealth care delivery in hospitals and doctor's ofﬁces, for the reception,general examination, symptoms, and prognosis. This course will alsoexplore the diversiﬁed Spanish cultures through a variety of materials(Spanish health magazines, literature, or Internet) and their role in healthidioms and phraseology. Students attend three classes per week. Note:This course does not fulﬁll any part of the language requirement.SP 0210 Intermediate Spanish I3 CreditsPrerequisite: SP 0111.This course, the ﬁrst in a two-semester sequence, prepares students tocontinue the study of language on a more advanced level, and includesreview of essential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regularpractice in speaking and writing. The language cultures are exploredthrough a wide variety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms,etc.). Students attend three classes per week and do mandatory onlinework determined by the instructor.SP 0211 Intermediate Spanish II3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisite: SP 0210.This course, a continuation of SP 0210, prepares students to continuethe study of language on a more advanced level, and includes review ofessential points of grammar, vocabulary building, and regular practice inspeaking and writing. The language cultures are explored through a widevariety of materials (literary texts, press articles, ﬁlms, etc.). Studentsattend three classes per week and do mandatory online work determinedby the instructor.SP 0220 Topics in Language and Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: SP 0211.This course improves proﬁciency in written and oral expression byfocusing on particular topics in Spanish language and culture. Studentsdevelop advanced writing and speaking skills while concentrating ongrammar, style, and appropriateness. Weekly compositions, basedprimarily on the genres studied (short story, theater, memoirs, essay)allow students to identify and correct grammatical mistakes. Studentspresent speeches in class and conduct situational dramas such as jobinterviews, television reporting, courtroom trials, debates in Spanish.Films and various cultural artifacts (comic strips, proverbs, songs)familiarize students with idiomatic Spanish.SP 0225 Spanish and English in Contrast3 CreditsPrerequisite: SP 0220.This class offers an in-depth review and study of the more problematicaspects of Spanish grammar for English speakers and providesstudents with the essentials of their own native grammar necessary tocomprehend the similarities between English and Spanish.
SP 0231B Career-Oriented Spanish for Business3 CreditsAttributes: BUEL Business Elective, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, SPMESpanish Major or Minor ElectivePrerequisite: SP 0211.This course aims to give post-intermediate students of Spanish a solidfoundation of business vocabulary, basic business and cultural concepts,and situational practice that will prepare them to succeed in today'sgrowing Spanish-speaking business world. It will incorporate a widearray of real-life situations and problems that will integrate all fourlanguage skills: speaking, reading, writing and listening. One of the mainobjectives of this course is to turn students into potential professionalsby improving their critical thinking and problem-solving skills necessaryin today's globalized business world.SP 0231N Career-Oriented Spanish for Nursing and HealthStudies3 CreditsAttributes: HSTE Health Studies: Traditions, Delivery, and Ethics, LCELLACS Minor: Elective, SPME Spanish Major or Minor ElectivePrerequisite: SP 0211.This to further develop Spanish skills in the four modes: speaking,listening, writing and reading to compliment health, pre-med and nursingstudies at a post-intermediate level. In addition to an advanced coursein Spanish grammar and vocabulary curated to the health studies needs,we will also explore the following topics through in-class presentations,role play, readings, and authentic texts from the Spanish-speaking world:Cultural competency, Lifespan issues, Bilingual health care systems,Health assessment in Spanish, and Patient teaching. Open to studentsinterested in health professions, pre-med, nursing, etc.SP 0245 Analysis and Interpretation of Hispanic Literature3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectivePrerequisite: SP 0220.The course provides students with the fundamentals of literary analysisin the genres of poetry, narrative, theater, and ﬁlm. It uses materials fromaround the Hispanic world to present a broad historical-cultural contextfor further reading and to sharpen the skills of analysis, argumentation,speaking, and writing. Focused on a literary study whose critical termsderive from the structure of literature itself (plot, scene, shot, verse, etc.),the course includes a survey of the periods of literary history. Studentscomplete critical papers.SP 0251 Spanish Civilization and Culture3 CreditsPrerequisite: SP 0220.This course presents the main currents of Spanish civilization by meansof lectures and student participation in written and oral reports. Studiesof the geography, history, literature, and ﬁne arts of Spain underscoreclass discussions.SP 0253 Spanish-American Civilization3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand Literature, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: SP 0220.This course presents a general view of Spanish-American civilizationfrom pre-Columbian times to the present. Participants study the culture,social history, and politics of Spanish-America through select literaryreadings, articles, documentaries, ﬁlms, newspapers, and Internetresearch. The course includes a special topic covering the globalizationin Latin America and its impact in the 21st century. Students completeexams, oral presentations, written papers, and a ﬁnal paper.SP 0271 Hispanic Film3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand Literature, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: SP 0245.This course examines and analyzes ﬁlm by Spanish and Latin-Americandirectors (BuÃ±uel, Saura, Littin, Sanjines, etc.). Students initially studyﬁlms as an independent genre using speciﬁc structural form as themeans of analysis (close-up, soundtrack, frame, etc.). Students thenbegin to formulate interpretations that move between the formal,technical composition of ﬁlms and the concrete socio-historic andcultural reality to which each ﬁlm refers. Course activities includescreening of ﬁlms, discussion of articles that deal with literary theory andanalysis of ﬁlm, and writing short papers.SP 0285 Introduction to Spanish Linguistics3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0220 and one additional 200-level Spanish course.This course is an introduction to the scientiﬁc study of language, with afocus on Spanish. It particularly aims at both the descriptive and appliedlevels. At the descriptive level, it will focus on the understanding of themechanisms of the language in various areas: how sounds are articulatedand work within a system (phonetics and phonology); how small unitswith meaning are combined to form words (morphology); how words arecombined to form sentences (syntax); how meaning is attached to thedifferent units, and how meaning operates at different levels (semantics).At the applied level, it will also explore topics such as linguistic variation,second language acquisition, bilingualism, and the situation of Spanish inthe US. Taught in Spanish.SP 0301 Love, Life, and Death in Spanish Literature3 CreditsAttributes: SPME Spanish Major or Minor ElectivePrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.This course, open to juniors and seniors only, presents a thematic viewof Spanish literature from its origins to the end of the 18th century. Whenpossible, students analyze and discuss complete works in class.SP 0305 Popular Culture in Latin America3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand LiteraturePrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This course examines the interaction among mass, elite, traditional, andindigenous art forms, their relationship with the dynamics of national/cultural identity in Latin America in the 19th and 20th centuries, andglobalization. Forms of expression include oral poetry and narrative;the folletin (19th-century melodramas by installment) to 20th-century"fotonovelas," "radionovelas," and "telenovelas"; broadsides; comics;musical and political movements such as neo-folklore, new song, NuevaTroba, and Rock Latino; artistic movements such as Mexican muralist;traditional and popular crafts; cooking; popular dance; and ﬁlm. Open tojuniors and seniors only.SP 0306 Cuban Film: A Close Look at the Revolution3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, SPME Spanish Major or MinorElective, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisite: SP 0253.This class investigates topics in Cuban history, culture, and politics, byfocusing on the impact of the Cuban Revolution on society as presentedthrough one of the strongest contemporary Cuban cultural artifacts:Cuban ﬁlm and ﬁlm about Cuba. Since 1959 ﬁlm has played a crucial rolein ofﬁcially narrating, shaping, critiquing and questioning the Revolution.We will analyze how ﬁlm continues to serve as a space to reflect on thecomplexities of Cuban society, and how social media and technology isnow challenging the limits of Cuban ﬁlm, and possibly of the Revolutionitself.
SP 0309 Bilingualism in the Spanish-Speaking World3 CreditsAttributes: SPME Spanish Major or Minor ElectivePrerequisites: SP 0220 and one additional 200-level Spanish course.The theme of this course is the issue of bilingualism, analyzed fromthree different angles: sociolinguistic, psycholinguistic, and educational.Bilingualism is a natural and widespread phenomenon, and research onthis area has been growing over the last years in various ﬁelds, such asApplied Linguistics, Psychology, Sociology, or Education. Approximatelyhalf of the world population speaks two or more languages, and currentresearch also shows cognitive advantages for those who speak morethan one language. This course will offer students a critical overview ofthis phenomenon from the three perspectives mentioned above. It will beconducted in Spanish.SP 0311 Glory, Splendor, and Decay: Spanish Golden AgeLiterature3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.This course studies the most important literary manifestations of the16th- and 17th-centuries' Golden Age Spanish culture, with emphasison Cervantes, Tirso de Molina, Lope de Vega, Quevedo, Góngora, andCalderón de la Barca. Open to juniors and seniors only.SP 0331 Love and Deception in 19th-Century Spanish Literature3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.Students study and analyze representative works of the romantic andrealist movements. The course emphasizes theatre and poetry, or thenovel, depending on students' needs. Juniors and seniors only.SP 0341 20th Century Spanish Literature3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.This course examines works and literary movements from the early partof the 20th century (Generation of '98) to present times. Representativeauthors include Unamuno, Baroja, Valle-Inclán, García Lorca, J.R.Jiménez, Cela, Laforet, Delibes, and Matute. Open to juniors and seniorsonly.SP 0346 Contemporary Spanish Theatre3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.This course examines several current themes in contemporary Spanishtheatre. One topic is how Spanish theatre has engaged with the memoryof historical moments such as the Spanish Civil War (1936-39), theensuing Franco dictatorship (1939-75), and terrorism under democraticrule, particularly the post-9/11 terrorist bombings in Madrid. Whilereading a selection of contemporary Spanish plays, we will study thestrategies used by playwrights to evoke or avoid the historical memory ofthese events.SP 0353 Spanish-American Narrative3 CreditsAttributes: ASML American Studies: Language, LCEL LACS Minor:Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Culture and LiteraturePrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This critical analysis and discussion of key words of the narrative genreemphasizes the 20th-century development of the novel and short story.Authors include Azuela, Quiroga, Borges, Bombal, Somers, Cortázar,García Márquez, Fuentes, Ferré, and Allende. The course also considersexperimental writing, the short story of fantasy, testimonio, and others,and requires critical papers and oral reports. Open to juniors and seniorsonly.SP 0357 The Spanish Novel3 CreditsPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0251.This course studies the novel of Spain from its ﬁrst tentativemanifestation with the picaresque through its major development withCervantes and into the 20th century, emphasizing the works of moreimportant writers. Open to juniors and seniors only.SP 0359 Culture, Civilization, and Literature in the Spanish-AmericanCaribbean Region3 CreditsAttributes: EDCG Educational Studies Cognate, EDDV Educational StudiesDiversity, LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand Literature, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This study and explanation of distinctive elements of Puerto Rico,Cuba, Dominican Republic, and Central American countries focuseson the fusion of indigenous, Black, and Hispanic as manifestation inthe Spanish-American Caribbean Region. Students will read, study, andcritically analyze relevant documents, and cultural materials from pre-Columbian populations until the contemporary period. Juniors andseniors only.SP 0360 Dictatorships and Revolutionary Movements in ContemporaryLatin America3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand Literature, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This course will analyze various revolutionary movements in LatinAmerica as well as the dictatorships that emerged in early 20th Centuryand ended almost at the turn of the century. We will discuss the new "neo-socialist" governments that have emerged in 21st Century Latin Americasince the end of the Socialist Block (1990s), under the dominant globaleconomy. In this class we will read, analyze, and discuss critical essaysand literature (narrative, poetry, and testimonies), and other cultural forms(such as ﬁction and documentary ﬁlms, art, music, etc.).SP 0363 Literature and Culture of the Hispanic Caribbean Migration andDiaspora3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand LiteraturePrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This course explores the overlapping experiences of migrations anddiaspora in the Hispanic Caribbean. The course reviews the history ofCaribbean migrations and the experiences of Caribbean migrants in theUnited States through major literary works of Puerto Rico, DominicanRepublic and Cuba. With its complex racial, cultural and linguisticsmixture, the Caribbean is where today's globalization began, over 500years ago. Students will draw on an interdisciplinary approach: historical,sociopolitical, ethnic, multi-linguistic and global contexts. Films and oralpresentations are part of the course. This course is taught in Spanish.SP 0371 Images of Latin American Indians3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: Elective, LCSC LACS Minor: Spanish Cultureand Literature, WDIV World DiversityPrerequisites: SP 0245, SP 0253.This course examines the vision of Latin American Indians from the ﬁrstletters of the "discoverers" and conquistadores (Colón, Cortés, BernalDíaz del Castillo), and missionaries (Bartolomé de las Casas) throughrelevant novels, short stories, and ﬁlms of the 19th and 20th centuries.To understand the post-discovery vision of the Indians, this coursealso studies the major pre-Columbian civilization of Mesoamerica andthe Andean region. Authors include: Matto de Turner, Icaza, Arguedas,Castellanos, and others. Open to juniors and seniors only.
SP 0377 Internship3 CreditsThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, evaluation of student interns maybe required from the institution where students work. The student's workshould demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent. Opento juniors and seniors only.SP 0378 Internship3 CreditsThe internship program gives students ﬁrst-hand experience in the ﬁeldsof translation, interpretation, cataloging, public relations, advertising,teaching, etc., in the language of their specialization. Departmentmembers, who agree to guide the endeavor, supervise student work.When required by a faculty supervisor, evaluation of student interns maybe required from the institution where students work. The student's workshould demand no less than one full day per week, or its equivalent. Opento juniors and seniors only.SP 0381 Coordinating Seminar I3 CreditsAttributes: LCEL LACS Minor: ElectiveThis is the senior capstone, in which every Senior Spanish Major duringthe spring semester of their senior year, must complete a research paperfor the major. The topic varies according to the professor teaching thecapstone that semester. Enrollment by permission only.SP 0382 Coordinating Seminar II3 CreditsStudents undertake readings and studies in a specialized area of Spanish,under the direction of a staff member. Designed to ﬁll the special needsof speciﬁc students, this course is offered at the discretion of thedepartment chair. Hours by arrangement. Open to juniors and seniorsonly.Special Education (SE)SE 0099 Comprehensive Examination in Special Education0 CreditsPrerequisites: SE 0410, SE 0411, SE 0413, SE 0417.The comprehensive examination is required of all candidates earningan MA degree in Special Education. The comprehensive exam is takenafter successful completion of at least 18 credits in the program inspecial education and is designed to assess a candidate's understanding,skills and knowledge base in the four areas associated with the Stateof Connecticut certiﬁcation law: a) Psycho-educational theory anddevelopment of children with disabilities, b) Diagnosis of children andyouth with disabilities, c) Program planning and education of childrenand youth with disabilities, and d) Curriculum and methods of teachingchildren and youth with disabilities. If the candidate fails one or moresections of the comprehensive examination, he/she will have oneadditional opportunity to re-take and pass the section(s) during thescheduled administration of the examination. Grading method: Pass withdistinction/Pass/Fail.SE 0400 Augmentative Alternative Communications and AssistiveTechnologies3 CreditsThis course provides prospective teachers with an overview of a rangeof assistive devices that can be implemented in a classroom setting forindividuals in grades K-12 with communication deﬁcits, visual and/orhearing impairments, physical challenges, and mild learning impairments.In this course, emphasis is placed on evaluating the needs of individualswhose exceptional needs create barriers to learning and on selecting theappropriate technology that will bypass their disability. Candidates willbe provided with resources on current devices and given opportunitiesto examine and operate actual devices that they may encounter in theclassroom setting.SE 0403 Psychoeducational Issues in Special Education3 CreditsThis foundational course covers a range of disability categories and isdesigned speciﬁcally to introduce candidates to children and adolescentswith exceptional learning needs (ELN) and to the foundational researchon the complex issues and problems that affect these students. Inthis course, candidates are introduced to a range of quantitative andqualitative research designs and the methodological tools to analyzedata. Through discussion of issues, candidates consider how researchcan be a valuable tool that helps teachers systematically reflect onlearning and evidence-based practices. Candidates investigate a topicon a psycho-educational issue in special education and write a researchpaper using APA format.SE 0405 Exceptional Learners in the Mainstream3 CreditsThis course familiarizes the mainstream professional with the speciallearning needs of children and youth with intellectual and developmentaldisabilities, learning disabilities, emotional disturbances, severedisabilities, multiple disabilities, and/or students who are gifted andtalented. Topics include methods of identifying and working effectivelywith children and youth with special learning needs in the regularclassroom; the roles and responsibility of counselors, psychologists,educators and ancillary personnel as members of a multidisciplinaryteam in planning educational services for exceptional learners; lawsthat impact on assessment, placement, parent and student rights, andsupport services. This course may require a ﬁeldwork component as partof the evaluation process. Note: This course is not for those pursuingan initial certiﬁcate or cross-endorsement in special education; it is forgeneral educators and students in afﬁliated ﬁelds of study.SE 0410 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Theories and Interventions3 CreditsThis core course highlights current research on theories and etiology ofAutism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). Candidates examine characteristicsand behaviors associated with ASD. Speciﬁc diagnostic assessmentand screening tools are reviewed to examine how these tools areutilized to identify infants and children with ASD. The course alsofocuses on providing the candidates with understanding the role offamilies. The course helps create a framework for implementing effectivepedagogical interventions, proﬁling the strengths and challenges ofvarious interventions. Previously SE 0500.SE 0411 Introduction to Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities3 CreditsCandidates develop an understanding and working knowledge ofintellectual and developmental disabilities in this core course, whichemphasizes the deﬁnitional, medical, psychosocial, and educationalissues that affect the lives of people who have been diagnosed as havingintellectual and/or developmental disabilities. This course requires aﬁeldwork component as part of the evaluation process.
SE 0413 Theories of and Introduction to Learning Disabilities3 CreditsThis core course introduces candidates to the various types of learningdisabilities, exploring various theoretical constructs pertaining tonumerous facets of the disorder (e.g., cognition, executive functioning,attention deﬁcits, etc.). Candidates examine educational and socialemotional sequelae and implications of speciﬁc receptive, memory,and expressive processing impairments on learning using actual caseevaluations. The important role of assessment in the identiﬁcationprocess, in response to intervention (RTI), and in creating instructionaleducational goals is emphasized. This course requires a ﬁeldworkcomponent as part of the evaluation process.SE 0417 Introduction to Children and Youth with Social and EmotionalDisturbances3 CreditsThis core course introduces candidates to emotional and behavioraldisorders (EBD) in students K-12. Symptoms, etiology, diagnostic criteriafor special services, and assessment devices are examined that preparecandidates to design instruction around behavioral goals for studentswhose behavior interferes with learning. Emphasis is placed on typicalversus atypical social and emotional development, the identiﬁcationprocess, analysis of behavior and functional behavior assessment (FBA),evidence-based cognitive behavioral interventions and the developmentof positive behavior support plans. This course requires a ﬁeldworkcomponent as part of the evaluation process.SE 0419 Special Learners in the Bilingual/ESL Classroom3 CreditsDesigned to familiarize special educators, bilingual educators andESL teachers with the developmental learning needs of children andadolescents who are exceptional, this course examines the speciallearning needs of linguistically and culturally diverse children, exploringmethods of identifying and working effectively with exceptional childrenand adolescents in bilingual or ESL classrooms. Crosslisted withSL 0419.SE 0429 Principles of Structured Literacy I: Fundamentals of Reading andLanguage Development3 CreditsThis course covers the foundational concepts of oral and writtenlanguage including the language processing requirements of proﬁcientreading and writing: phonological, orthographic, morphologic, semantic,syntactic, and discourse processing. Candidates will learn otheraspects of cognition and behavior that affect reading and writingsuch as attention, executive function, memory, processing speed, andgrapho-motor control. Candidates will learn the typical developmentalprogression of oral language (semantic, syntactic, pragmatic),phonological skills, printed word recognition, spelling, and readingfluency. Candidates will also learn how the relationships among majorcomponents of literacy development change with reading development(i.e. changes in oral language, including phonological awareness; phonicsand word recognition, spelling; and reading and writing fluency). Theresearch and instructional strategies for phonological awareness,systematic phonics, and reading fluency will be taught. Crosslisted withRLD 0429.SE 0432 Management Techniques in Special Education3 CreditsDesigned to offer training in techniques for improving the academic andsocial behavior of students with behavior problems, this course teachescandidates how to effect positive behavioral change and includes suchtopics as behavioral observation and analysis, task analysis, interventionstrategies, and behavior change measurement and recording. Candidatescomplete a functional behavior assessment using data from a ﬁeldworkcomponent for this course.SE 0486 Developmental Literacy I: Fundamentals of Reading andLanguage Development3 CreditsThis course is the ﬁrst in a set of two courses that address thefoundational concepts, theories, empirical research, and developmentalmilestones associated with oral and written language. This coursefocuses on the development of essential decoding strand readingskills (phonological awareness, alphabetic principle, fluency), as wellas aspects of cognition and behavior that affect reading and writing.Candidates learn how to administer, score, and interpret universalscreening and informal diagnostic measures in the areas of phonologicalawareness, alphabetic principle, and fluency for the purposes ofdetermining the most appropriate starting point for instruction andplanning differentiated instructional groups. Candidates also learn howto select and deliver varied research-based instructional strategies todevelop students' foundational reading skills in the areas of phonologicalawareness, alphabetic principle, and fluency. Crosslisted with RLD 0486.SE 0487 Developmental Literacy II: Essentials of Vocabulary and TextComprehension3 CreditsThis course is the second in a set of two courses that address thefoundational concepts, theories, empirical research, and developmentalmilestones associated with oral and written language. This coursefocuses on the development of essential comprehension strand readingskills (fluency, vocabulary, comprehension), as well as aspects ofcognition and behavior that affect reading and writing. Candidates learnhow to administer, score, and interpret universal screening and informaldiagnostic measures in the areas of vocabulary, comprehension, andfluency for the purposes of determining the most appropriate startingpoint for instruction and planning differentiated instructional groups.Candidates also learn how to select and deliver varied research-basedinstructional strategies to develop students' reading skills in the areas ofvocabulary and comprehension. Crosslisted with RLD 0487.SE 0529 Principles of Structured Literacy II: Essentials of Decoding andEncoding3 CreditsThis course covers vocabulary and comprehension research and explicitinstructional strategies. The candidate will learn about the role ofvocabulary development and vocabulary knowledge in comprehension.This course includes research-based comprehension teaching strategiesthat are appropriate for before, during, and after reading that promotereflective reading (e.g., prediction, prior knowledge, monitoring,think-aloud, text structure, visual representation, mental imagery,summarization, questions-questioning, etc.). Candidates will learn thefactors that contribute to deep comprehension including backgroundknowledge, vocabulary, verbal reasoning ability, knowledge of literarystructures and conventions, and use of skills and strategies for closereading of text. Semantics, the ability to identify examples of meaningfulword relationships or semantic organization and syntax, the ability todistinguish among phrases, dependent clauses, and independent clausesin sentence structure, are presented. This course includes an introductionto discourse organization, explaining the difference between narrativeand expository text and knowledge of cohesive devices in text andinferential gaps in the surface of text. Crosslisted with RLD 0529.
SE 0534 Skill Development for Individualized Educational Plans3 CreditsThis course is designed to develop the skills necessary for creatingcomprehensive diagnostic educational plans for students with identiﬁedlearning needs and utilizes comprehensive cognitive processing andacademic achievement evaluations as a foundation. A non-categoricalapproach is utilized and topics of exploration include: the identiﬁcationof patterns of strengths and weaknesses and resultant developmentof goals and objectives; determination of appropriate methodologies,programs, and strategies; selection and organizational sequence ofmaterials; and consideration of various educational environments inwhich services may be provided.SE 0537 Curriculum and Methods for Students with Mild to ModerateDisabilities3 CreditsThis course presents curriculum and methods for use with studentshaving mild to moderate disabilities in learning.SE 0550 Collaboration and Consultation for the Special Educator3 CreditsThis course presents an overview of models that support the role of theconsulting teacher as a facilitator and collaborator with school-basedpersonnel and families of students with disabilities in the process ofdecision making and service delivery to children, youth, and young adultswith special learning needs. Major topics include: the application ofconsultation models and family systems theories to systems change;psychosocial stages of family structure and systemic interaction; stagesof group process, working with paraprofessionals, and co-teaching. Thisclass may require a ﬁeldwork component.SE 0561 Diagnostic Procedures in Special Education of Youth withDisabilities3 CreditsThis course includes selection, admistration, scoring, and interpretationof individually administered cognitive processing and academicachievement diagnostic instruments that help drive instructionaldecision-making. Candidates are also provided with detailed information/data as it pertains to administering varied diagnostic assessmentsused for disability identiﬁcation, interpreting results for purposes ofdetermining eligibility for various disabilities (e.g., Dyslexia, Dyscalculia,Dysgraphia, etc.) and, understanding varied diagnostic assessments andprocedures by using various models of interpretation and theoreticalfoundations. Also, the course provides a foundation for understandingthe strengths and weaknesses of students undergoing diagnosticevaluations.SE 0565 Evidence-Based Strategies in the Inclusive Classroom3 CreditsPrerequisite: ED 0350 or SE 0405.This course builds on the foundational knowledge about exceptionallearners examined during SE 0405, and shifts the focus to strategies thatcan be used to differentiate instruction for exceptional learners in theinclusive classroom. General education candidates will learn about theirrole in the pre-referral/referral process and how to develop IEP goals andobjectives. Next, candidates will be introduced to a range of social andacademic assessment devices that are used to drive instruction. Usingvideos and case studies, candidates will analyze patterns of behavior inorder to design evidenced-based classroom behavior management plans.By the end of the course, candidates will be able to make modiﬁcationsto their curriculum, and accommodations to their instructional delivery, tomeet the needs of exceptional learners.SE 0568 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsThis course explores advanced topics in the ﬁeld of special education.Topics may vary each semester and are determined by the specialeducation faculty as a reflection of pertinent themes of interest in theﬁeld.SE 0591 Practica in Special Education3 CreditsThis course consists of an experiential opportunity for candidatespursuing a cross-endorsement in special education. Each practicumis individually designed to meet the candidate's needs and fulﬁllthe certiﬁcation requirement of working with at least two differentdisabilities. Practicum requirements include seminar attendancein one semester of student teaching in conjunction with the on-siteexperience and supervision. Candidates fulﬁlling the cross-endorsementin comprehensive special education conﬁrm placements in conjunctionwith the candidate's University advisor and the Director of StudentTeaching Placement. Enrollment requires successful completion ofrequired courses, passing of the PRAXIS II in Special Education andthe Foundations of Reading Test, and permission of the candidate'sUniversity advisor. Candidates must notify their University advisor andthe Director of Field Experiences of their intent to start these courses inthe semester prior to their anticipated practicum placement. For cross-endorsement candidates only. Pass/Fall.SE 0592 Practica in Special Education3 CreditsThis course consists of an experiential opportunity for candidatespursuing a cross-endorsement in special education. Each practicumis individually designed to meet the candidate's needs and fulﬁllthe certiﬁcation requirement of working with at least two differentdisabilities. Practicum requirements include seminar attendancein one semester of student teaching in conjunction with the on-siteexperience and supervision. Candidates fulﬁlling the cross-endorsementin comprehensive special education conﬁrm placements in conjunctionwith the candidate's University advisor and the Director of StudentTeaching Placement. Enrollment requires successful completion ofrequired courses, passing of the PRAXIS II in Special Education andthe Foundations of Reading Test, and permission of the candidate'sUniversity advisor. Candidates must notify their University advisor andthe Director of Field Experiences of their intent to start these courses inthe semester prior to their anticipated practicum placement. For cross-endorsement candidates only. Pass/Fall.SE 0593 Student Teaching and Practica Seminar in SpecialEducation6 CreditsThis six-credit course consists of a semester-long, fulltime placement ina public school or an approved setting working with a trained cooperatingteacher who supervises the candidate pursuing an initial certiﬁcate inspecial education as he or she works with students identiﬁed with atleast two different disabilities. Student teaching requirements includeattendance in Student Teaching and Practica Seminar (SE 0594) inconjunction with the on-site experience and supervision. Candidatesfulﬁlling the initial certiﬁcate in special education coordinate their siteplacements with their academic advisor, University supervisor, and/or thedirector of Student Teaching Placement. Enrollment requires successfulcompletion of required courses and permission of the candidate'sUniversity advisor. Candidates must notify their University advisor, andthe Director of Field Experiences of their intent to start this course in thesemester prior to their anticipated student teaching experience. For initialcertiﬁcation candidates only. Pass/Fail.
SE 0594 Student Teaching and Practica Seminar in SpecialEducation3 CreditsCorequisite: SE 0591 or SE 0592 or SE 0593.Participants take this weekly seminar concurrently with studentteaching/practica. Although much of the seminar's subject matterflows from the ongoing student teaching/practica experience, itdeliberately addresses areas such as understanding IEPs, goal writing,lesson planning, due process, mindfulness, communication withparents/caregivers, sensitivity to multicultural issues, and roles andresponsibilities as a case manager. It also provides opportunities tocollaborate with regular education certiﬁcation candidates in waysauthentic to the work of both categories of teachers and specialeducation. The course stresses continued reflective practice andprofessional development, including development of a professionalportfolio, continued study and research, and establishing a supportivecollegial network. The job application process, including resume writing,interviewing skills, and developing a teaching philosophy, are alsoaddressed. Candidates also receive information on the certiﬁcationprocess.SE 0595 Independent Study3-6 CreditsThe course provides opportunities for advanced candidates to pursuetheir interests in diverse aspects of special education under the guidanceof a faculty member. Enrollment by permission of the instructor and theDirector of Special Education only.SE 0599 Seminar in Special Education3 CreditsPrerequisite: Matriculation in the Special Education program andpermission from the candidate's University Advisor and the Director ofSpecial Education.This advanced synthesizing seminar directs the candidate toward anin-depth study of special topics in the ﬁeld, using a research-orientedapproach.Studio Art (SA)SA 0011 Introduction to Sculpture3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis beginning sculpture course is an introduction to working three-dimensionally. Promoting an understanding of the creative process,students will construct objects in both abstract and realistic styles. Thecourse emphasizes concepts, contemporary art and theory througha wide variety of materials and aesthetic categories such as collage,sculptural construction, and installation.SA 0012 Introduction to Drawing3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course focuses on the act of seeing and its intimate connectionwith mark-making. Experiences develop observational, expressive, andconceptual skills. Students explore the formal elements of drawing,such as line, value, composition, and form, and how they can be used toexpress an awareness of one's self and the world around one. The courseexplores a variety of materials and processes through in- and out-of-classprojects. Students participate in critiques of these projects and, throughwriting and speaking, develop a language of aesthetic awareness and asense of artistic quality.SA 0013 Introduction to Figure Drawing3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis introduction to drawing from the human ﬁgure uses a wide varietyof media and techniques. The course emphasizes understanding,interpretation, and expressive use of the ﬁgure in contemporary studiopractice. Students discover proportion and form throughline, value,perspective, anatomical studies, and analysis of structure. Studentsparticipate in critiques of their projects and, through writing and speaking,develop a language of aesthetic awareness and a sense of artistic quality.The course is typically offered fall semester.SA 0014 Introduction to Printmaking3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course is an introduction to traditional, contemporary andexperimental approaches to making prints. By exploring etching,monoprinting, digital imaging and photographic techniques studentslearn skills fundamental to the printmaking process. In this course wewill explore visual language in a broader studio arena, incorporating colortheory and an exploration of ideas based on individual experiences and aresponse to and reflection on current issues and concerns.SA 0015 Introduction to Painting3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course introduces the methods, techniques, and language ofoil painting. Students explore principles of color, construction, painthandling, delineation of form and space, light and shadow, surface,texture, and composition. Students paint primarily from observation andemploy representational and abstract modes. Materials and historicalconcerns are integral parts of directed and individual investigations.SA 0016 Introduction to 2-D Design3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course is an introduction to the aesthetic dimension of humanexistence through the appreciation and practice of pictorial design, afundamental aspect of our larger visual culture. Studio exercises willfamiliarize students with concepts such as line, rhythm, shape, balance,texture, and pattern. A hands-on studio environment with computer-basedassignments will involve students in practical and creative problem-solving. Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop will be the software programsused on all assignments. Across the semester students become morefamiliar and conversant in the elements and principles of design as wellas the two software programs.
SA 0100 Experiments in Drawing3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeIn this introductory course students will gain an expanded view of howseeing, drawing, and thinking contribute to organizing and expressingone's visual thoughts and ideas. Through hands-on studio projects,visual thinking will be emphasized as a creative practice that augmentsintellectual thought and teaches problem-solving skills. Through aninterdisciplinary approach, students will discover new ways of organizingvisual space and reflect on the myriad of approaches to working withtheir hands and new materials both found and new. Projects will includea wide range of mark making, collage, collotypes and other layeringtechniques. This course is designed to be open and accessible to allstudents.SA 0101 Introduction to Digital Tools in Art Making3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeIn this introductory studio course, students will explore digital graphicssoftware and how it may be used in conjunction with traditional artmedia (such as painting and drawing in pencil, ink, charcoal, pastels, andgouache) to develop a unique visual voice. Through projects that buildon one another's idea-based and technical components, students willdevelop an understanding of vocabulary fundamental to visual languageand technology's relationship to art now and throughout history. Projectswill emphasize that digital technology is not an end in itself, but a meansto realizing ideas.SA 0105 Color Workshop3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course investigates fundamental color theory through studioprojects using contemporary and historical references. Students focus onthe development and exploration of ideas using a variety of color mediaand study the practical mixing and application of pigments. The coursestresses perception, visual awareness, sensitivity, attitude, and judgment,and is typically offered fall semester. This course is designed to be openand accessible to all students.SA 0130 Painting I3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course introduces the methods, techniques, and language ofoil painting. Students explore principles of color, construction, painthandling, delineation of form and space, light and shadow, surface,texture, and composition. Students paint primarily from observation andemploy representational and abstract modes. Materials and historicalconcerns are integral parts of directed and individual investigations. Thiscourse is designed to be open and accessible to all students.SA 0132 Sculpture: Construction and Subtraction3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeAn introduction to three-dimensional form and the area that it inhabits,this broad-spectrum course offers an in-depth focus on developingstudio skills in sculpture. Hands on collaborative and individual projectsintroduce students to the themes of space and the environment throughan exploration of abstraction and representation. A consideration ofthe evocative nature of materials is central to this course, as visualorganization in the world around us is investigated. This course isdesigned to be open and accessible to all students.SA 0133 Alternative Processes Photography3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $105 Materials FeeThis course covers alternative techniques in photography, includingCyanotypes, Kallitypes, collage, and instant photography. Additionally,students will have readings pertaining to the history of the medium, andwill be introduced to contemporary concepts and use of the photographicimage. A digital camera, while not required, will be useful. There are asmall number of manual and digital loaner cameras available through theStudio Art Program, but loans are available on a ﬁrst come basis. Thiscourse is designed to be open and accessible to all students.SA 0134 Digital Photography3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $105 Materials FeeThis course covers basic techniques of digital photography, includingprint production, the development of concepts and theory in photography,the relationship of photography to other visual media, and the study ofhistorical and contemporary precedents. In addition, students will explorethe manipulation of photographic images in both black and white andcolor through the use of Adobe Photoshop. Students must provide theirown digital camera. For this course, cameras must have a manual over-ride option. There are nine possible loaner cameras available through theStudio Art Program, but loans are available on a ﬁrst come basis. Thiscourse is designed to be open and accessible to all students.SA 0136 Artist Book Construction3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeHow does visual language differ from written language? How do theyinteract? This course considers these and related issues concerning thenature of visual and written language. The course introduces students tothe working methods and thought processes of independent artists, andengages students in a dialogue with contemporary artistic, social, andnatural and/or political issues under the tutelage of a practicing artist.Typically offered every other spring semester. This course is designed tobe open and accessible to all students.SA 0137 Motion and Time-Based Art3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course uses a wide variety of media to develop and presentperformance and installation art, emphasizing interconnectionswith video, computer, telecommunications, photography, ﬁlm, liveperformance, music, and sound. It is typically offered every other springsemester. This course is designed to be open and accessible to allstudents.
SA 0138 From Drawing to Painting3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course specializes in teaching students to work with drawing asa way to develop subject matter and transition into painting. The ﬁrstpart of the semester is focused on collecting and drawing from visualreferences such as nature, the ﬁgure, interiors and still life. Working withsketches, students learn to develop avisual vocabulary to articulateideas that are meaningful and personal to them. This practice is usedas a starting point to develop a language of expression and transitioninto painting. This course is designed to be open and accessible to allstudents.SA 0139 Watercolor3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course is an introduction to the methods, techniques and languageof watercolor. In exploring the fundamentals of watercolor this coursehelps students develop their abilities to see and explore washes of colorin relation to pictorial space and form. Color relationships, value, layeringof washes, and wet into wet processes are explored. This course isdesigned to be open and accessible to all students.SA 0199 Special Topics (Shell)3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseStudents will have the opportunity to work in a speciﬁc medium ortechnique, or on a particular subject, not available in our regular courseofferings.SA 0230 Advanced Painting3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: SA 0130.This course builds on the experience of Painting I and stresses fluency inpaint and the advanced development of technical and expressive skills. Itfocuses on the generation of ideas as a central component in the processof painting. Individual direction is developed in consultation with theinstructor. The course, typically offered in the spring semester, includesindividual and group criticism.SA 0231 Advanced Printmaking3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: SA 0014 or SA 0136.This course focuses on the development of technical and conceptualskills as a central component in the process of printmaking, with anemphasis on developing individual direction through studio work,drawing, writing, and research. Students explore intaglio, silkscreen, andpainterly methods of mono-printing. The course is typically offered fallsemester.SA 0232 Advanced Sculpture3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: SA 0011 or SA 0132.This course builds on the experience of Sculpture I and stresses theadvanced development of technical and expressive skills. It focuses onthe generation of ideas as a central component in sculpture. Individualdirection is developed in consultation with the instructor. Typicallyoffered in the spring semester, the course includes individual and groupcriticism.SA 0233 Advanced Photography3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeThis course builds upon the fundamentals of photography learned inprevious photography courses, and depending on the semester focuseson either digital or darkroom techniques. If the focus is digital, a digitalcamera is required for this course.SA 0235 Advanced Drawing3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisite: SA 0012 or SA 0013 or SA 0100 or SA 0101 or SA 0138.This course builds upon the experience of SA 12 and stresses advanceddevelopment of skills. It focuses on the generation of ideas as a centralcomponent in the process of drawing and emphasizes individual directionand inventive drawing through studio projects developed in consultationwith the instructor. Typically offered in spring semester, the courseincludes individual and group criticism.SA 0299 Advanced Projects Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: GDSA Graphic Design: Studio Arts, VPC2 Visual andPerforming Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeePrerequisites: Three courses in Studio Art.Required for students majoring and an option for students minoring inStudio Art, this course helps students develop a unique body of workrepresentative of their explorations, discoveries and development.Emphasis is on preparing a portfolio reflective of their individual practice.Students read and discuss contemporary and art historical issues.Visiting artists and critics are a feature of the class. Open to majors andminors only.SA 0301 Exhibition Seminar3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseFee: $55 Materials FeeStudents in this course build on Advanced Projects experiences andcontinue to develop a unique body of work representative of theirexplorations, discoveries, research and deep reflection. Students regularlyread and discuss contemporary, art theory and art historical issues.Emphasis is placed on preparing a portfolio and Senior exhibition.Visiting Artists and critiques are a feature of the class. Spring semesteronly. Open to senior Studio Art majors only.SA 0302 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseBy arrangement with studio faculty, juniors and seniors may workindependently on speciﬁc studio projects. Progress is reviewed throughindividual critiques. Students regularly read and discuss contemporaryand art historical issues. Students must ﬁnalize independent studies withthe studio program director.
SA 0304 Studio Internship1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseInternships are for students who have completed at least three studiocourses and whose academic work has prepared them for professionalwork related to internships as studio assistants to professional artists orfor work in museums, galleries, or art-related non-proﬁt organizations inthe New York City and local areas. Internships require faculty sponsorshipand departmental approval, and are developed by each student inconsultation with the supervising professor.TESOL and Bilingual Education (SL)SL 0099 Comprehensive Examination in TESOL and Bilingual/Multicultural Education0 CreditsSL 0419 Special Learners in the Bilingual/ESL Classroom3 CreditsDesigned to familiarize bilingual and ESL teachers with thedevelopmental learning needs of children and adolescents who areexceptional, this course examines the special learning needs oflinguistically and culturally diverse children, exploring methods ofidentifying and working effectively with exceptional children andadolescents in bilingual or ESL classrooms. Crosslisted with SE 0419.SL 0420 Linguistic Foundations of English Acquisition3 CreditsThis course focuses on the various theoretical components relatedto developing linguistic competency in English and provides relatedinformation associated with the foundational knowledge of reading andlanguage arts. A primary focus is phonology and related contrastivelinguistics, and its relationship to reading decoding. Also addressedare the linguistic components of: (a) morphology and vocabulary; (b)syntax, grammar, and sentence structure; and (c) associated constructsof attention such as working memory and executive functions thatimpact maintaining newly learned information. Students will havethe opportunity to: (a) explore current research regarding developinglinguistic competency; (b) analyze linguistic similarities and differencesbetween languages; (c) read about typical and atypical reading andlanguage development of English learners (ELs); and (d) becomeacquainted with current technological tools to support ELs acquisition oflinguistic skills.SL 0421 Linguistics for Language Teachers3 CreditsThis course provides language teachers with a basic introductionto the principles and methods of linguistic theory, with an emphasison semantics, syntax, morphology, and phonology. Additional topicsinclude pragmatics and written language. The investigation of ﬁrst andsecond language acquisition gives language teachers an insight into thedevelopment of language for ELL students.SL 0422 Teaching Grammar in Second Language Settings3 CreditsGrammar is a necessary component of language programs. This courseprovides foreign/second language and bilingual teachers with techniquesto facilitate their students' acquisition of grammar, to illustrate effectivecontextualization of grammatical principles, and to examine instructionalstrategies that draw the learner's attention to speciﬁcally structuralregularities. The course also analyzes the theoretical considerations ofsecond language grammar teaching.SL 0423 Principles of Bilingualism3 CreditsThis foundation course examines research and theories underlyingbilingualism. Candidates gain an understanding of the concepts andissues involved in using the principles of bilingualism in educationalsettings. The course also includes an overview of the historicaldevelopment of bilingual education in the United States and othercountries and a discussion of major programs and social models forbilingual education.SL 0433 Elementary TESOL/Bilingual Advanced Practicum3 CreditsPrerequisite: SL 0436 or SL 0451.This course provides TESOL/Bilingual Education candidates withopportunities for supervised internships in TESOL or bilingual elementaryclassroom settings. Students complete a minimum of 48 hours ﬁeldworkin classroom settings where they will observe instructional practicesand interact with and plan instruction for students learning English asa second language. In practicum seminar, candidates will reflect onand deepen their understanding of the ways in which the educationalcontext and diverse educational needs of students have an impact ontheir learning and academic progress.SL 0436 TESOL Methods and Materials Development3 CreditsDesigned for second language teachers and prospective teachers, thiscourse explores methods, techniques, strategies, and instructionalmedia relevant to teaching English language learners, emphasizingthe development and enhancement of communicative environmentsin language classrooms. Participants examine a variety of innovativemethods and discuss the adaptation and development of materials andassessment instruments. This course meets the state requirement for thecertiﬁcate for teaching English to adult speakers of other languages.SL 0439 Methods of Foreign Language Teaching for ElementarySchool3 CreditsThis course is designed for pre- and in-service World Languageteachers seeking the Elementary World Languages cross-endorsement.Candidates will gain an understanding of current theory and methods ofteaching foreign languages in the elementary school (FLES) grades K-6.They will examine similarities and differences between FLES programmodels and develop and understand of the issues related to programdevelopment. Topics will include the selection of developmentallyappropriate strategies and materials for elementary foreign languageteaching, lesson planning and curriculum development, and use oftechnology-assisted instruction. Candidates will develop their abilityto integrate the ACTFL and CT World Languages Standards into FLESinstructional program development and lesson planning.SL 0441 Teaching and Learning within Multicultural Contexts ofEducation3 CreditsThis course explores and addresses the multifaceted aspects ofmulticultural education with the aim of engaging in a teaching-learningprocess where participants explore their commitment to the well-beingand learning of all students; develop a deep understanding of the needsof all students; develop strategies to promote caring, justice, and equityin teaching; learn to respect linguistic, racial, ethnic, gender, and culturaldiversity; investigate how students construct knowledge; demonstrate anunderstanding of the relationship between students' daily life experiencesand education; and critiquesystematic processes of discrimination thatmarginalize and silence various groups of students. Crosslisted withED 0441.SL 0450 Second Language Methods for Secondary Teachers (Grades6-12)3 CreditsPrerequisites: SL 0423, SL 0527*.This course provides an overview of second language theory andmethods, curriculum models, materials selection and development,and content-based ESL for teaching secondary English languagelearners. The role of literacy in second language acquisition and theappropriate integration of technology to enhance second languageteaching and promote secondary students' learning will be examined.Culture, language, dialect variation, and diversity and their implicationsfor the secondary school curriculum will also be addressed. (* indicatesconcurrency allowed)
SL 0451 Infusing Content Language Instruction into TESOL/BilingualPrograms3 CreditsPrerequisites: SL 0423 or SL 0467; SL 0436.Designed for ESL and bilingual teachers, this course explores teachingstrategies that enable the English language learner to understand thediscourse of content subjects. Topics include strategies to developacademic language, oral presentation skills, content speciﬁc syntax andgrammar, and writing. Participants will examine textbooks and developmaterials that infuse content-area language into the ESL program.Procedures for assessing student progress in content area languagedevelopment will be discussed.SL 0453 Differentiated Instruction for English LanguageLearners3 CreditsDesigned for foreign/second language/TESOL and bilingual teachers, thiscourse will also assist content area and classroom teachers. Its purposeis to explore the basic concepts, research, and principles of differentiatedinstruction as a means to meet the diverse needs of students in today'sclassrooms. Participants will be able to align the concepts to theirpresent teaching environments.SL 0461 Reading and Writing in a Second Language3 CreditsDesigned for second/foreign language and bilingual teachers, thiscourse examines current theory and research underlying ﬁrst- andsecond-language reading and composing processes. Additional topicsincludeprocedures for understanding and analyzing the problemsthat characterize second language readers and writers; strategies forassessing student performance; evaluating and adapting materials; andenhancing the comprehension and creation of written second languagediscourse.SL 0467 Language Acquisition3 CreditsThis course introduces the core hypotheses of current theory onlanguage acquisition. Participants learn to recognize fundamentalpatterns of social and cultural contexts that facilitate languageacquisition, build upon the processes and stages of language acquisitionand literacy to provide comprehensible input, facilitate communicativecompetence and evaluate teaching and learning strategies across abilitylevels and within discipline-speciﬁc content areas. Approved for theElementary Foreign Language cross-endorsement.SL 0475 Sociolinguistics3 CreditsThis course examines variability in language use according to region,race or ethnic background, gender, and personality with the goal ofdeveloping sensitivity to variation in one's own language and that ofothers, and examining language variation using the methods and insightsof contemporary linguistics.SL 0477 Culture and Second Language Acquisition3 CreditsDesigned for second language and bilingual teachers, this coursetreats culture and language as interdependent phenomena, exploringthe basic concepts, research, and principles applicable to culture andlanguage learning with an emphasis on the practical application of theseconcepts to the language classroom. Participants also gain an enhancedawareness of their assumptions regarding their own and other cultures,and an understanding of how these assumptions influence languageteaching and learning.SL 0489 Secondary TESOL/Bilingual Advanced Practicum3 CreditsPrerequisite: SL 0436 or SL 0451.This practicum provides TESOL/Bilingual Education candidates withopportunities for supervised internships in the TESOL or bilingualsecondary classroom settings. Students complete a minimum of 48hours of ﬁeldwork where they will observe instructional practices andinteract with and plan instruction for students learning English as asecond language. In practicum seminar, candidates will reflect on anddeepen their understanding of the ways in which the educational contextand diverse educational needs of students have an impact on theirlearning and academic progress.SL 0498 Thesis Seminar3 CreditsCandidates who have selected the thesis option for completion of theM.A. degree develop their research proposals, carry out the research, andcomplete their theses during this seminar. An approved thesis mustbesubmitted to fulﬁll this degree requirement.SL 0504 English Language Learners in the Regular Classroom3 CreditsDesigned to familiarize the mainstream teacher with the learning needsof children and adolescents who are linguistically and culturally diverse,this course employs an overview of second language acquisition theoryas the framework for discussing ways to meet the needs of Englishlanguage learners. Teachers also learn strategies for developing andadapting materials for creating communicative classroom environmentsand assessing student performance.SL 0522 Emergent Literacy in Bilingual Early ChildhoodEducation3 CreditsThis course is designed to prepared teachers of early childhoodeducation (Pre-K to 3) to work effectively with culturally diverse childrenwho are learning English as an additional language in pre-school andschool contexts. The course focus is on ﬁrst and second languagedevelopment in the young child with implications for emergent literacyteaching and learning. Culture and childrearing practices, their impact onschooling, and strategies to build successful partnerships with familiesand communities will also be discussed.SL 0526 Historical and Sociopolitical Issues in Bilingual/Multicultural/ESL Education3 CreditsThis course, which is conducted as a seminar, provides an overviewof the historical events and philosophical issues underlying bilingual/multicultural/ESL education and discusses contemporary socio-politicalcontroversies surrounding bilingual/multicultural and ESL instruction.SL 0527 Testing and Assessment in TESOL and BilingualPrograms3 CreditsPrerequisites: SL 0423 or SL 0467; SL 0436.Designed for TESOL and bilingual teachers, this course provides anoverview of formal and authentic techniques for assessing secondlanguage and bilingual proﬁciency. Participants evaluate standardizedinstruments currently in use; analyze techniques for assessing factorsrelevant to second language and bilingual proﬁciency such as academicachievement, language aptitude, and competence in reading, writing,speaking, and listening; and discuss controversial issues affectinglanguageassessment.SL 0528 Second Language Curriculum Development3 CreditsThis course familiarizes foreign/second language and bilingual teacherswith the theory underlying the development of second language curricula.The course emphasizes devising curricula in accordance with the needsof learners and presents strategies for analyzing needs, developingcurricula that focus on communication, and evaluating and choosingappropriate materials and assessment instruments.
SL 0530 Language and Reading Acquisition for English LanguageLearners and Students with Special Needs3 CreditsUsing a train-the-trainer model, this course develops literacy leadershipskills to train others and develops understanding of foundational readingconcepts and strategies to better prepare prek-12 teachers to teach ELstudents how to read. This course is designed for candidates to learnabout the developmental learning needs of culturally and linguisticallydiverse students, exceptional learners, and bilingual students withspecial needs, as well as working in collaborative data teams. Candidateswill explore the similarities and differences between bilingual/TESOLstudents and students with-special-needs with a focus on readingskills development (e.g. phonology, orthography, morphology, syntax,semantics, etc.) Candidates will learn about instructional strategies thatall teachers can use in their classroom to support reading developmentfor all students. Crosslisted with RLD 0530.SL 0540 Special Topics in English Acquisition Pedagogy3 CreditsThe special topics course in English acquisition varies in content, asneeded, in order to provide timely opportunity to explore time-sensitive,new and emerging topics and foci on a one-time basis, or to offer a pilotsection of a new course in development. Each special topics course willhave a unique focus, clearly identiﬁed in the course title after the colon.Candidates may take a special topics course more than once, as longas the course content and foci are distinctly different. Suggested topicsinclude English acquisition, English as a second language pedagogy,assessment of English language learners with/without special needs,curriculum design, and program evaluation. Open only to studentsenrolled in Advanced TESOL or Bilingual Education MA or SYC programs.SL 0581 Directed Observation and Supervised Student Teaching6 CreditsThis course for candidates who have been approved as qualiﬁedcandidates for teaching in TESOL or bilingual education involvescandidates in observation and teaching ﬁve days a week for onesemester. In accordance with certiﬁcation regulations, candidatesspend half of the student-teaching period in an elementary settingand half in a secondary setting. The course emphasizes classroommanagement dynamics, teaching techniques, lesson plan organization,and faculty duties. Candidates participate in group seminars andindividual conferences; the university supervisor(s) and the cooperatingteacher(s) assist, observe, and evaluate each candidate. Prerequisites:Formal acceptance into teacher preparation program and completion ofall certiﬁcation requirementsSL 0582 TESOL/Bilingual Student Teaching and DSAP I Seminar3 CreditsCandidates take this weekly seminar concurrently with student teachingor DSAP: Part I. The seminar focuses on the issues and problemsfaced by student teachers and on the culture and organization of theschools. Although much of the seminar's subject matter flows fromthe on-going student teaching experience, it address issues such asschool governance, school and district organizational patterns in TESOLand bilingual programs, classroom management, conflict resolution,communication with parents, and sensitivity to multicultural issuesand inclusion, as well as the job application process, including resumewriting, interviewing, and the development of professional and teachingportfolios.SL 0588 Directed Observation I for TESOL/Bilingual DSAPCandidates3 CreditsPrerequisite: All requirements for student teaching; approval of programdirector and dean.This course is designed for candidates working in a public elementaryor secondary school under a DSAP. Two semesters of observationare required. Candidates are observed and evaluated by a Universitysupervisor a minimum of three times each semester. The supervisorcollaborates with the candidate, his/her mentor, and with schoolpersonnel who are assigned to assess the candidate at the district level.Concurrent participation in a collegial reflective seminar is an element forthis ﬁeld experience.SL 0589 Directed Observation II for TESOL/Bilingual DSAPCandidates3 CreditsThese courses are designed for candidates working in a publicelementary or secondary school under a DSAP. Two semesters ofobservation are required. Candidates are observed and evaluated bya University supervisor a minimum of three times each semester. Thesupervisor collaborates with the candidate, his/her mentor, and withschool personnel who are assigned to assess the candidate at the districtlevel. Concurrent participation in a collegial reflective seminar is anelement for this ﬁeld experience.SL 0590 Sixth Year Certiﬁcate Advanced Research Practicum in TESOL/Bilingual Education3 CreditsCandidates solve a practical problem in classroom teaching, applyingeducational research to a speciﬁc ESL/bilingual school situation.SL 0595 Independent Study3 CreditsCandidates complete individual study with the written permission of thedepartment chair, having submitted their proposals prior to registration.Taxation (TX)TX 0500 Tax Research3 CreditsThis course introduces students to tax research source materials andprovides students with the opportunity to conduct tax research. Afterthe course, students should be able to identify tax issues inherent invarious fact scenarios, locate and evaluate various sources of tax law,and effectively communicate conclusions and recommendations basedon their research. Open only to students enrolled in MS Accounting,MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or by permission from theDepartment Chair or his or her designee.TX 0501 Tax Accounting3 CreditsThis course introduces students to federal tax accounting and contrastsits effects with those of ﬁnancial accounting. After the course, studentsshould be able to identify accounting transactions and methods thathave differing tax and ﬁnancial statement treatments, and to understandand plan for the consequences of those differences. Open only tostudents enrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxationprograms, or by permission from the Department Chair or his or herdesignee.TX 0502 Tax of Property Transactions3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the income tax laws impactingreal property transactions. After the course, students should be ableto identify tax issues stemming from various types of real propertytransactions and activities, as well as plan for the consequencesof, and make recommendations for alternatives to, contemplatedproperty transactions. Open only to students enrolled in MS Accounting,MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or by permission from theDepartment Chair or his or her designee.
TX 0510 Entity Taxation3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the fundamental concepts, rules,and tax planning applications of the federal income taxation for differentbusiness entities including corporations, partnerships and trusts, inaddition to estate and gift taxes. After the course, students should beable to identify the tax planning implications of different income taxationconcepts and rules pertaining to business entity transactions includingformation, operations, distributions, liquidation, and other transactionsbetween the entity and its owners or beneﬁciaries. Open only to studentsenrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, orby permission from the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0512 Corporate Tax II3 CreditsPrerequisite: TX 0510.This course introduces students to advanced concepts of the federalincome taxation of corporations, partnerships, trusts and estates. Anexamination of some advanced topics in estate and gift taxation willalso be undertaken. The course will focus on examining case situationsand planning opportunities available. After the course, students shouldbe able to identify tax issues in these advanced areas and suggestalternative plans for consideration and implementation. Open only tostudents enrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxationprograms, or by permission from the Department Chair or his or herdesignee.TX 0520 Estate and Gift Taxation3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the concepts of, as well as thestatutory rules surrounding, federal estate and gift taxation. After thecourse, students should be able to identify tax issues stemming fromlifetime and at-death transfers of various types of property and propertyrights to various classes of beneﬁciaries or donees, as well as to planfor the consequences of, and make recommendations for alternativestructuring of intended wealth transfers. Open only to students enrolledin MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or bypermission from the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0522 Taxation of Trusts and Estates3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the concepts of, as well as thestatutory rules surrounding, the federal income taxation of trusts andestates. After the course, students should be able to identify income taxissues arising during administration, which affect the various parties tothe estate or trust, as well as to plan for the consequences of, and makerecommendations for alternative structuring of intended transactions.Open only to students enrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYCTaxation programs, or by permission from the Department Chair or his orher designee.TX 0530 Partnership Taxation3 CreditsThis course introduces students to the fundamental concepts ofthe federal income taxation of partnerships and partner-partnershiptransactions. After the course, students should be able to identify taxissues stemming from various partnership transactions and activities,including those between the partnership and the partners, as well as planfor the consequences of, and make recommendations for alternativestructuring of, intended transactions and activities. Open only to studentsenrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, orby permission from the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0540 State and Local Taxation3 CreditsThis course helps students develop a conceptual understandingof the constitutional limits on a state's power to impose taxes, thedetermination of state-speciﬁc taxable income, the sales and usetax system, and various other state taxes. After the course, studentsshould be able to identify the tax issues associated with the conduct ofbusiness in multiple states, as well as plan for the consequences of, andmake recommendations for alternative structuring of, intended multi-state transactions and activities. Open only to students enrolled in MSAccounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or by permissionfrom the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0542 International Taxation3 CreditsThis course helps students develop a conceptual understanding ofthe federal income tax provisions applicable to non-resident aliensand foreign corporations. After the course, students should be able toidentify the tax issues associated with the generation of U.S. taxableincome by foreign individuals and corporations, as well as plan for theconsequences of, and make recommendations for alternative structuringof, intended U.S. transactions and activities by these particular taxpayers.Open only to students enrolled in MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYCTaxation programs, or by permission from the Department Chair or his orher designee.TX 0548 Tax Practice and Procedure3 CreditsThis course familiarizes students with the rules of practice before theInternal Revenue Service, as well as the procedures available for theresolution of income tax matters of disagreement. After the course,students should be able to identify the appropriate procedures applicableto speciﬁc transactions, elections and ﬁlings, as well as the appropriateand alternative means by which the resolution of disagreements betweentaxpayers and the IRS can be achieved. Open only to students enrolledin MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or bypermission from the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0550 Tax Planning3 CreditsThis course develops a framework for understanding how taxes affectbusiness decisions, and provides students with the tools to identify,understand, and evaluate tax planning opportunities in various decisioncontexts, such as investments, compensation, organizational formchoice, and multinational endeavors. Open only to students enrolledin MS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or bypermission from the Department Chair or his or her designee.TX 0585 Seminar: Contemporary Topics in Taxation3 CreditsThis course presents recent practitioner and academic literature invarious areas of taxation, including guest speakers where appropriate.Topics change semester to semester, depending upon faculty andstudent interests. Open only to students enrolled in MS Accounting,MBA Taxation, or SYC Taxation programs, or by permission from theDepartment Chair or his or her designee.TX 0591 Practicum in Taxation3 CreditsThis course builds on the in-class lessons covered during the student'sgraduate studies by providing the student with the opportunity to applyhis/her academic knowledge to a professional taxation context. Assuch, it is an experiential learning activity. Successful completion ofthe practicum will entitle students to three credits that count as agraduate-level taxation elective. Open only to students enrolled in theMS Accounting, MBA Taxation, or Taxation Graduate Certiﬁcate program.Enrollment by permission of the department chair or his/her designee.This course may not be repeated for credit.
TX 0598 Independent Study3 CreditsThis course provides students with an opportunity to develop researchskills while exploring a speciﬁc contemporary taxation issue with afull-time faculty specializing in the area of the discipline. Studentsare expected to complete a signiﬁcant research paper as the primaryrequirement of this course. Enrollment by department chair permissiononly.Theatre (TA)TA 0011 Introduction to Theatre3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseWhen we can download any movie we want to our computer and watchit from the comfort of the residence hall, why do live theatre? Why seelive theatre? Does live theatre have anything to offer that movies andTV cannot? Is it worth doing or seeing? Actually, the act of witnessinglive theatre challenges us to think more deeply, more critically, and morethoughtfully about our society and ourselves. Theatre can change theworld. This course is about understanding why we need theatre in ourlives, and becoming more active, more engaged, more attentive audiencemembers.TA 0030 Acting I3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis class is an intensive introduction to technique and training essentialto acting. Manifesting the understanding of key concepts throughdemonstrating skills is the primary focus of the course. Physicalopenness and responsiveness are explored and developed in pursuitof performance that is dynamically immediate and wholly engagesaudience, ensemble, and performer. Students will learn and practiceViewpoints, an approach to performance that allows performers todevelop stage presence, play as a member of an ensemble, and makeexciting performance choices. The class also introduces vocal techniquefor stage, the key ingredient to theatrical storytelling.TA 0094 Theatre Fairﬁeld: Performance Practicum1 CreditStudents gain ﬁrst-hand training in performance under the guidance oftheatre professionals. Everyone cast in a Theatre Fairﬁeld production isautomatically enrolled in this one-credit practicum. Students may alsoearn credit by enrolling in weekly Performance Workshops, which focuseach semester on introducing a particular performance skill. Some of thetopics covered in previous Performance Workshops include: clowning,stage combat, physical performance, and puppetry. This course maybe repeated but may not be included in the 120 credits required forgraduation.TA 0095 Theatre Fairﬁeld: Production Practicum1 CreditStudents gain ﬁrst-hand training in theatre production under the guidanceof theatre professionals. Everyone working on a crew of a TheatreFairﬁeld production is automatically enrolled in this one-credit practicum.Students must consult with theatre faculty regarding placement as acrew head in stage management, technical, or front-of-house duties.This course may be repeated but may not be included in the 120 creditsrequired for graduation.TA 0106 Theatre Management3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseWhen considering a theatre event, we usually think of actors performingfor an audience. Yet, there is a network of factors ensuring a successfulactor/audience connection. On the management side, there is the stagemanager, making sure that every moment of the performance runssmoothly. On the administration side, there are other issues: Where didthe money come from? How did the audience learn about the production?What is the overriding purpose of the theatre company? This courseintroduces the numerous managerial and administrative matters that arenecessary for theatre production.TA 0110 World Theatre I3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseTheatre serves as a vehicle to consider the social, political, and economicforces that shaped societies and their entertainments. This coursesurveys theatre and performance as a mirror of the people and timesthat shaped them. It begins with a consideration of the human needfor mimesis and entertainment, and swiftly moves into the goldenage of Greek drama. Other topics include Roman theatre, medievalreligious drama, Japanese theatre, Renaissance spectacle and pageantry,censorship, the advent of women on the stage, and popular theatre formsthrough the 18th century. The course includes theatre trips.TA 0111 World Theatre II3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course examines 19th- and 20th-century theatre and performancein the context of the people and societies that shaped them. It beginsby examining the impact of technology on the theatrical world andcontinues to the present day with a consideration of the avant-gardeand contemporary forms such as performance art. The course includestheatre trips.TA 0120 American Drama3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S.Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course examines the development of American theatre from the 18ththrough the 21st centuries. It includes a study and analysis of the specialproblems affecting the development and changes in American society asseen through American playwriting and theatre production. Students readover twenty plays that grapple with issues of race, ethnicity, gender, class,and what it means to be an American. The course includes theatre trips.TA 0122 Asian Theatre3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History Course, WDIVWorld DiversityThis is a survey of major classical and contemporary theatres of Japan,China, India, and Indonesia. Included are traditional plays as well asdance, puppetry, and opera. Students view productions on video and ﬁlm,read and discuss plays, explore the historical and sociological contextwhich shaped these entertainments. The course includes theatre trips.
TA 0123 American Women Playwrights3 CreditsAttributes: ASGW American Studies: Gateway, ASVP American Studies:Visual and Performing Arts, E_AF English Literature After 1800, UDIV U.S.Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History Course, WSGFWomen, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThis course traces the evolution of plays by women from theRevolutionary War to plays reflecting the 21st-century concerns ofAfrican American, Asian, American, and Latina playwrights. Plays arediscussed in light of the social, political, and economic climates thatproduced them. Special emphasis is given to questions of sex, gender,race, ethnicity, and class, as we explore how American women, despiteconsiderable obstacles, have developed their own theatrical voices. Ourstudy is further informed by the work of feminist performance theorists.TA 0135 Modern and Contemporary Dance3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course explores the movement principles of the major dance ﬁguresin the 20th century, including Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, HanyaHolm, Jose Limon, and Merce Cunningham. Students complete research,compositional assignments, and structured improvisations to supportthe classroom activity. Overall, students gain a historical perspective ofmodern dance as an art form and improve their own dance technique interms of strength, alignment, and flexibility.TA 0138 Folk and Social Dance3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course explores dance as social interaction and communal activity.Students discuss and participate in various kinds of folk dancesoriginating from different ethnic cultures and explore their commonroots in primitive rituals, religious worship, courtship, recreation,celebration, and therapeutic or healing experiences. The course alsoexplores contemporary forms of ballroom, disco, and club dancing.Students complete research, compositional assignments, and structuredimprovisations to support classroom activity.TA 0150 Introduction to Entertainment Technology3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course is an introduction to the technical aspects of theatreproduction. Students learn basic techniques of set construction, riggingand stage lighting. Lectures serve as foundational information for aseries of lab sessions held throughout the semester. In labs, studentsconstruct, rig and light a fully realized Theatre Fairﬁeld production. Properuse of hand and power tools is emphasized. Lab schedules are createdduring the ﬁrst weeks of class, in consultation between the instructor andstudents. To compensate students for the lab requirement, students earnone credit through enrollment in TA 0095.TA 0153 Stage Makeup and Costume Construction3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseThis course introduces the basic principles, skills, and techniques ofapplying theatrical makeup and building costumes. The makeup portionexplores two- and three-dimensional makeup techniques includingcorrective makeup, age makeup, facial hair, and prosthetic makeup.The costume portion focuses on hand and machine sewing techniques,fabrics and fabric modiﬁcation, and garment construction. Studentsare required to participate in costume construction for Theatre Fairﬁeldproductions. To compensate students for the lab requirement, studentsearn one credit through enrollment in TA 0095.TA 0155 Design I3 CreditsAttributes: GDTA Graphic Design: Theatre, VPC2 Visual and PerformingArts Core: Applied CourseDesigning for the theatre involves a series of interrelated actions: playanalysis, visual research, ideation, development, drawing/painting, andcollaborating with others. In this class, students study and practice allof these areas of the creative process. In addition, students study theunderlying theories and principles that affect scenery, costume andlighting design.TA 0158 Scene Painting3 CreditsAttributes: GDTA Graphic Design: Theatre, VPC2 Visual and PerformingArts Core: Applied CourseThis workshop introduces the basic principles, skills, and techniques ofthe scenic artist. Through a series of painting projects, students explorecommon painting techniques. The course gives special attention tomatching the paint project to the paint elevation, as well as developingcreative thinking skills. Projects emphasize craftsmanship and the abilityto work as part of a team in addition to dealing with the time factors ofactual production. Students research various techniques, styles, andvisual textures in addition to hands-on work in the class. Students serveas members of a paint crew for a Theatre Fairﬁeld production.TA 0210 Theatre in Production3 CreditsStudents take this course in conjunction with a particular TheatreFairﬁeld production. This course offers an immersion experience, asstudents engage in focused theatrical research in the classroom andimmediately apply the concepts in the production. The class/productionformat makes particularly challenging scripts and/or artistic approachespossible. Some of the topics covered in previous semesters includeRestoration comedy, performing Shakespeare, and devised theatre.TA 0215 American Musical Theatre: History and Practice3 CreditsAttributes: UDIV U.S. Diversity, VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core:History CoursePrerequisite: One Music or Theatre course.Musical theatre is a complex genre that has developed in tandem withthe developing American nation. It is a serious art form that, in its ﬁnestiterations, represents total works of art unique in and of themselves.This course expands students' knowledge of the range and diversityof the genre as codiﬁed in the middle 20th century by Rodgers andHammerstein and their imitators. Embedded in great musical theatrepieces is the essence of what it means to be an American living in theUnited States at a particular time in history.TA 0230 Acting II3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: TA 0030.This is an intensive acting course that builds upon the basic actingprinciples taught in Acting I. In this course, students apply what they havelearned about the art, analysis, and interpretation of acting to a varietyof dramatic styles. Students explore several period acting styles throughexercises, scenes and monologues. Students gain a well-rounded andthoughtful understanding of acting as a practical and intellectual art thatprepares them for further work in theatre and related performing arts.
TA 0231 Acting for the Camera3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: TA 0030.This course is an introduction to the specialized techniques used insuccessful on-camera acting. On-camera exercises emphasize theimportance of listening, truthful moment-to-moment response, andeffective communication skills. Initial classes examine the differencebetween acting for the stage and acting for the camera. Studentspractice a variety of on-camera styles including comedy, crime drama,and commercials. The course builds towards longer scene work froma screenplay. Topics include script analysis, nuance and depth ofperformance, relaxation and conﬁdence on-camera.TA 0240 Directing3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CoursePrerequisite: TA 0030.This course for advanced students covers the theory, practice, and historyof directing for the theatre. In a workshop format, students explorevarious ways of bringing a play script from conception to full production.The course includes sessions in text analysis, working with actors anddesigners, and the role and responsibility of the director to the overallproduction. Students direct several in-class scenes and a one-act playthat is produced in Director's Cut, part of Theatre Fairﬁeld's season.TA 0253 Costume Design3 CreditsAttributes: GDTA Graphic Design: TheatrePrerequisite: TA 0155.Before a character even speaks, we have a strong sense of who thatperson is, based on our impression of the costume design. This classfocuses on how costume designers engineer strong connectionsbetween the world of the play and the audience's experience. Playanalysis, historical research, visual research, idea-generation, designdevelopment and rendering styles are addressed. Emphasis is placed ona sound creative process, as well as grounding our designs with historicalaccuracy.TA 0256 Stage Lighting3 CreditsPrerequisite: TA 0150 or TA 0155.With light on stage, we create a vast array of environmental moods. Inorder to accomplish these effects, students must grasp two separateﬁelds of information. First, there are technical elements: the nature oflight, electricity, reflection, refraction, lighting instruments and controlsystems. Then there is light in the context of the theatrical production.This involves play analysis, visual research, and manipulating light in thetheatre space. Both the technical and aesthetic aspects are covered inthis class. Safe use of electricity and lighting equipment is emphasized.TA 0288 Scene Design3 CreditsAttributes: GDTA Graphic Design: TheatrePrerequisite: TA 0155.In a play, scenery provides the context, allowing the audience to connectto the characters and their dramatic journey. Not merely locale, scenery isa visual accompaniment to the action of the play. In this course, studentsdevelop their drafting, rendering and model-making skills, as these arethe designer's principle communication tools. The course includes playreading, analysis and historical research. Emphasis is placed on a soundcreative process, as well as grounding designs with historical accuracy.TA 0300 Special Topics3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseIn this class, students undertake an in-depth study of a speciﬁc problem.This might include period research, dramaturgy, a particular style ofacting, a particular style of design, or other aspect of production. Thecourse is conducted by a leading scholar/practitioner in the ﬁeld. Thecourse is open to invited students only.TA 0310 Capstone: Theory of Production3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course is an in-depth exploration of theatre aesthetics andproduction theory. Students consider what theatre is, can, and shouldbe, while studying varying perspectives on theatrical design, directing,and staging practices. Class sessions focus on analyzing the writings ofsuch major ﬁgures as Antonin Artaud, Peter Brook, Edward Gordon Craig,Robert Edmond Jones, and Susan Sontag. This is the capstone class fortheatre majors and minors but other interested students with sufﬁcientbackground are welcome.TA 0395 Internship3 CreditsAttributes: VPC2 Visual and Performing Arts Core: Applied CourseWith faculty sponsorship, students work with professional theatrecompanies and theatre artists. Students develop their skills in real-worldsituations, while networking and gaining invaluable work experience.Internships are also available on-campus, within Theatre Fairﬁeld.Students interested in becoming interns must consult with theatrefaculty well in advance of the desired internship semester. Internships forsummer work are encouraged.TA 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: VPCH Visual and Performing Arts Core: History CourseThis course allows students to intensively explore a particular aspectof stage management, design, acting, directing or dramaturgy under theguidance of a faculty member. Students must have the approval of thetheatre faculty before registering for this course.Women, Gender, and SexualityStudies (WS)WS 0299 Internship3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedThe internship program allows students to gain on-site experiencethat can be related to the discipline of Women, Gender and SexualityStudies. Internship areas include health, publishing, communications,politics, and many other ﬁelds. Students consult the program directorfor a list of internship opportunities before registering for this course.Faculty supervision helps students integrate their experiences with theintellectual foundation acquired in their academic courses.WS 0301 Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies CapstoneSeminar3 CreditsAttributes: PJST Peace and Justice Studies, WSGF Women, Gender, andSexuality Studies: Gender FocusedStudents take this ﬁnal course in the minor sequence in the senior yearafter completing the other ﬁve required courses. The course integratesfeminist approaches across the disciplines, emphasizing the relationshipbetween theory and practice. It is open to seniors only; juniors may enrollwith the permission of the program director.WS 0399 Independent Study1-3 CreditsAttributes: WSGF Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies: Gender FocusedBy arrangement with Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies faculty,students may choose to work independently on special topics. See theprogram director for details.
